Title: Travels into North America, Volume 1 (of 3)


Author: Pehr Kalm

Translator: John Reinhold Forster

Release date: October 10, 2023 [eBook #71849]

Language: English

Original publication: Warrington / London: William Eyres, 1770

Credits: Jeroen Hellingman and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net/ for Project Gutenberg (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TRAVELS INTO NORTH AMERICA, VOLUME 1 (OF 3) ***




                                TRAVELS
                                 INTO
                             NORTH AMERICA;

                               CONTAINING

                        Its Natural History, and
                    A circumstantial Account of its
                Plantations and Agriculture in general,

                                WITH THE
                       CIVIL, ECCLESIASTICAL AND
                    COMMERCIAL STATE OF THE COUNTRY,

              The MANNERS of the INHABITANTS, and several
           curious and IMPORTANT REMARKS on various Subjects.

                             By PETER KALM,

       Professor of Oeconomy in the University of Aobo in Swedish
     Finland, and Member of the Swedish Royal Academy of Sciences.

                        TRANSLATED INTO ENGLISH

                    By JOHN REINHOLD FORSTER, F.A.S.


   Enriched with a Map, several Cuts for the Illustration of Natural
                  History, and some additional Notes.

                                VOL. I.

                              WARRINGTON:
                       Printed by WILLIAM EYRES.

                                MDCCLXX.









                           TO THE HONOURABLE

                           DAINES BARRINGTON,


    One of his Majesty’s Justices of the Grand Sessions for
    the Counties of Anglesey, Caernarvon, and Merioneth.


    SIR,

    I Presume to prefix your name to a performance which will in
    some measure display to the British nation, the circumstances
    of a country which is so happy as to be under its protection.

    Every lover of knowledge, especially of natural history, must
    be sensible of your zealous endeavours to promote every branch
    of it. It was my great happiness to fall within your notice,
    and to receive very substantial and seasonable favours from
    your patronage and recommendations. I shall ever remain mindful
    of your generosity and humanity towards me, but must lament
    that I have no other means of expressing my gratitude than by
    this publick acknowledgment.

    Accept then, Dear Sir, my earnest wishes for your prosperity,
    and think me with the truest esteem,

        Your most obliged,
            and obedient
                humble Servant,

                    John Reinhold Forster.

    Warrington,
    July 25th. 1770.









PREFACE.


The present Volume of Professor Kalm’s Travels through North America,
is originally written in the Swedish language, but was immediately
after translated into the German by the two Murray’s, both of whom are
Swedes, and one a pupil of Dr. Linnæus, and therefore we may be sure
that this translation corresponds exactly with the original.

Baron Sten Charles Bielke, Vice president of the Court of Justice in
Finland, was the first who made a proposal to the Royal Academy of
Sciences at Stockholm, to send an able man to the northern parts of
Siberia and Iceland, as places which are partly under the same latitude
with Sweden, and to make there such observations and collections of
seeds and plants, as would improve the Swedish husbandry, gardening,
manufactures, arts and sciences. Dr. Linnæus found the proposal just,
but he thought that a journey through North America would be yet of a
more extensive utility, than that through the before-mentioned
countries; for the plants of America were then little known, and not
scientifically described, and by several trials, it seemed probable
that the greatest part of the North American plants, would bear very
well the Swedish winters; and what was more important, a great many
American plants promised to be very useful in husbandry and physic.

Thus far this journey was a mere scheme; but as Captain Triewald, a man
well known for his abilities in England, gave his Observations on the
Cultivation of Silk in a series of Memoirs to the Royal Academy of
Sciences, and mentioned therein a kind of mulberry tree, which was
discovered by Dr. Linnæus, and which bore the rigours of the Swedish
climate as well as a fir or pine tree; this circumstance revived the
proposal of such a journey in the year 1745. Count Tessin, a nobleman
of established merit both in the political and learned world, becoming
president of the Royal Academy, it was unanimously agreed upon to send
Professor Kalm to North America. The expences were at first a great
obstacle; but the Royal Academy wrote to the three universities to
assist them in this great and useful undertaking. Aobo sent first her
small contribution, Lund had nothing to spare, but Upsala made up this
deficiency by a liberal contribution.

Count Piper was intreated to give a family exhibition to Mr. Kalm,
which he readily promised, but as the Academy had obtained from the
convocation of the university of Upsala and the magistrates of
Stockholm, another exhibition of the family of Helmsfield for Mr. Kalm,
Count Piper refused to grant his exhibition, as being contrary to the
statutes of the university and without any precedent, that one person
should enjoy two exhibitions. The present king of Sweden being then
prince royal, successor to the throne, and chancellor of the
university, wrote to the convocation, and expressed his wishes to have
from the treasury of the university for so useful a purpose, about 1000
plates, or about 150l. sterling. The university complied generously
with the desire of her chancellor, and gave orders that the money
should be paid to the Royal Academy. The board for promoting
manufactures gave 300 plates, or about 45l. Mr. Kalm spent in this
journey his salary, and besides very near 130l. of his own fortune, so
that at his return he found himself obliged to live upon a very small
pittance. The rest of the expences the Academy made up from her own
fund.

We on purpose have given this detail from Mr. Kalm’s long preface, to
shew the reader with what public spirit this journey has been supported
in a country where money is so scarce, and what a patriotic and
laudable ardor for the promotion of sciences in general, and especially
of natural history and husbandry animates the universities, the public
boards, and even the private persons, in this cold climate, which goes
so far, that they chuse rather to spend their own private fortunes,
than to give up so beneficial and useful a scheme. We have the same
instance in Dr. Hasselquist, who with a sickly and consumptive
constitution, went to Asia Minor, Egypt and Palestine, and collected
such great riches in new plants and animals, that Dr. Linnæus’s system
would never have contained so many species, had he not made use of
these treasures, which the queen of Sweden generously bought by paying
the debts of Dr. Hasselquist, who died in his attempt to promote
natural history. The Reverend Mr. Osbeck in his voyage to China, made
an infinite number of useful and interesting observations at the
expence of his whole salary, and published them by the contributions of
his parish. The Reverend Mr. Toreen died by the fatigues of the same
voyage, and left his letters published along with Osbeck, as a monument
of his fine genius, and spirit for promoting natural history. We here
look upon the expences as trifling, but they are not so in Sweden, and
therefore are certainly the best monuments to the honour of the nation
and the great Linnæus, who in respect to natural history is the primum
mobile of that country.

Professor Kalm having obtained leave of his Majesty to be absent from
his post as professor, and having got a passport, and recommendations
to the several Swedish ministers at the courts of London, Paris,
Madrid, and at the Hague, in order to obtain passports for him in their
respective states, set out from Upsala, the 16th. of October 1747,
accompanied by Lars Yungstrœm, a gardener well skilled in the knowledge
of plants and mechanics, and who had at the same time a good hand for
drawing, whom he took into his service. He then set sail from
Gothenburgh, the 11th. of December but a violent hurricane obliged the
ship he was in to take shelter in the harbour of Grœmstad in Norway,
from which place he made excursions to Arendal and Christiansand. He
went again to sea February the 8th. 1748, and arrived at London the
17th. of the same month. He staid in England till August 15th. in which
interval of time he made excursions to Woodford in Essex, to little
Gaddesden in Hertfordshire, where William Ellis, a man celebrated for
his publications in husbandry lived, but whose practical husbandry Mr.
Kalm found not to be equal to the theory laid down in his writings; he
likewise saw Ivinghoe in Buckinghamshire, Eaton and several other
places, and all the curiosities and gardens in and about London: at
last he went on board a ship, and traversed the ocean to Philadelphia
in Pensylvania, which was formerly called New Sweden, where he arrived
September the 26th. The rest of that year he employed in collecting
seeds of trees and plants, and sending them up to Sweden; and in
several excursions in the environs of Philadelphia. The winter he
passed among his countrymen at Raccoon in New Jersey. The next year
1749, Mr. Kalm went through New Jersey and New York along the river
Hudson to Albany, and from thence, after having crossed the lakes of
St. George and Champlain, to Montreal and Quebec, he returned that very
year against winter to Philadelphia, and sent a new cargo of seeds,
plants and curiosities to Sweden. In the year 1750, Mr. Kalm saw the
western parts of Pensylvania and the coast of New Jersey; Yungstrœm
staid in the former province all the summer for the collection of
seeds, and Prof. Kalm in the mean time passed New York and the blue
mountains, went to Albany, then along the river Mohawk to the Iroquois
nations, where he got acquainted with the Mohawk’s, Oneida’s,
Tuskarora’s, Onandaga’s and Kayugaw’s. He then viewed and navigated the
great lake Ontario, and saw the celebrated fall at Niagara. In his
return from his summer expedition, he crossed the blue mountains in a
different place, and in October again reached Philadelphia.

In the year 1751, the 13th. of February, he went at Newcastle on board
a ship for England, and after a passage subject to many dangers in the
most dreadful hurricanes, he arrived March the 27th. in the Thames, and
two days after in London. He took passage for Gothenburgh May the 5th.
and was the 16th. of the same month at the place of his destination,
and the 13th. of June he again arrived at Stockholm, after having been
on this truly useful expedition three years and eight months. He
afterwards returned again to his place of professor at Aobo, where in a
small garden of his own, he cultivates many hundreds of American
plants, as there is not yet a public botanical garden for the use of
the university, and he with great expectation wishes to see what plants
will bear the climate, and bear good and ripe seeds so far north. He
published the account of his journey by intervals, for want of
encouragement, and fearing the expences of publishing at once in a
country where few booksellers are found, and where the author must very
often embrace the business of bookseller, in order to reimburse himself
for the expences of his publication. He published in his first volume
observations on England, and chiefly on its husbandry, where he with
the most minute scrupulousness and detail, entered into the very
minutiæ of this branch of his business for the benefit of his
countrymen, and this subject he continued at the beginning of the
second volume. A passage cross the Atlantic ocean is a new thing to
Swedes, who are little used to it, unless they go in the few East India
ships of their country. Every thing therefore was new to Mr. Kalm, and
he omitted no circumstance unobserved which are repeated in all the
navigators from the earlier times down to our own age. It would be a
kind of injustice to the public, to give all this at large to the
reader. All that part describing England and its curiosities and
husbandry we omitted. The particulars of the passage from England to
Pensylvania we abridged; no circumstance interesting to natural history
or to any other part of literature has been omitted. And from his
arrival at Philadelphia, we give the original at large, except where we
omitted some trifling circumstances, viz. the way of eating oysters,
the art of making apple dumplings, and some more of the same nature,
which struck that Swedish gentleman with their novelty.

Mr. Kalm makes use of the Swedish measure; its foot is to the English
foot, as 1134 to 1350. For his meteorological observations, he employed
the thermometer of Prof. Celsius generally made use of in Sweden, and
his was of Celsius’s own making; the interval from the point of
freezing to the point of boiling water, is equally divided in this
thermometer into 100 parts. In the names of plants, we have chiefly
employed after his directions the Linnæan names in the last edition of
his Spec. Plantarum, and Systema Naturæ, Vol. 2. But as his
descriptions of animals, plants, and minerals are very short, he
promises to give them at large some time hence in a Latin work. He
excuses the negligence of his stile, from the time in which he
methodised his observations, which was commonly at night, after being
fatigued with the business of the preceding day, when his spirits were
almost exhausted, and he, incapable of that sprightliness which
commends so many curious performances of that nature.

He gives you his observations as they occurred day after day, which
makes him a faithful relater, notwithstanding it takes away all
elegance of style, and often occasions him to make very sudden
transitions from subjects very foreign to one another. This defect we
will endeavour to supply by a very copious index at the end of the
whole work, rather than derange the author’s words, which are the more
to be relied on, as being instantly committed to paper warm from his
reflections.

At last he arms himself with a very noble indifference against the
criticism of several people, founded on the great aim he had in view by
his performance, which was no less than public utility. This he looks
upon as the true reward of his pains and expences.

These are the contents of his long preface. We have nothing to add, but
that we intend to go on in this work as soon as possible, hoping to be
supported and encouraged in this undertaking, by a nation which is the
possessor of that great continent, a great part of which is here
accurately and impartially described, especially at this time when
American affairs attract the attention of the public.

We intend to join for the better illustration of the work, a map and
drawings of American birds and animals which were not in the original.
They will be copied from original drawings and real birds and animals
from North America, which we have access to, and must therefore give to
this translation a superiority above the original and the German
translation.

An encourager of this work proposed it as an improvement to the
translation of Kalm’s travels, to add in the margin the paging of the
original, as by this means recourse would be had easily to the
quotations made by Dr. Linnæus. We would very readily have complied
with this desideratum, had we had the Swedish edition of this work at
hand, or had the work not been too far advanced at the time we got this
kind hint: however this will be remedied by a copious index, which will
certainly appear at the end of the whole work.

As we have not yet been able to procure a compleat list of the
subscribers and encouragers of this undertaking, we choose rather to
postpone it, than to give an imperfect one: at the same time we assure
the public, that it shall certainly appear in one of the subsequent
volumes.

We find it necessary here to mention, that as many articles in Mr.
Kalm’s travels required illustrations, the publisher has taken the
liberty to join here and there some notes, which are marked at the end
with F. The other notes not thus marked were kindly communicated by the
publisher’s friends.

Lastly, we take this opportunity to return our most sincere thanks in
this public manner to the ladies and gentlemen, who have generously in
various ways exerted themselves in promoting the publication of these
useful remarks of an impartial, accurate and judicious foreigner, on a
country which is at present so much the object of public deliberation
and private conversation.









PETER KALM’s TRAVELS.


August the 5th. 1748.

I with my servant Lars Yungstrœm (who joined to his abilities as
gardener, a tolerable skill in mechanics and drawing) went at Gravesend
on board the Mary Gally, Captain Lawson, bound for Philadelphia; and
though it was so late as six o’clock in the afternoon, we weighed
anchor and sailed a good way down the Thames before we again came to
anchor.

August the 6th. Very early in the morning we resumed our voyage, and
after a few hours sailing we came to the mouth of the Thames, where we
turned into the channel and sailed along the Kentish coast, which
consists of steep and almost perpendicular chalk hills, covered at the
top with some soil and a fine verdure, and including strata of flints,
as it frequently is found in this kind of chalk-hills in the rest of
England. And we were delighted in viewing on them excellent corn
fields, covered for the greatest part with wheat, then ripening.

At six o’clock at night, we arrived at Deal, a little well known town,
situate at the entrance of a bay exposed to the southern and easterly
winds. Here commonly the outward bound ships provide themselves with
greens, fresh victuals, brandy, and many more articles. This trade, a
fishery, and in the last war the equipping of privateers, has enriched
the inhabitants.

August the 7th. When the tide was out, I saw numbers of fishermen
resorting to the sandy shallow places, where they find round small
eminences caused by the excrements of the log worms, or sea worms,
(Lumbrici marini. Linn.) who live in the holes leading to these
hillocks, sometimes eighteen inches deep, and they are then dug out
with a small three tacked iron fork and used as baits.

August the 8th. At three o’clock we tided down the channel, passed
Dover, and saw plainly the opinion of the celebrated Camden in his
Britannia confirmed, that here England had been formerly joined to
France and Flanders by an isthmus. Both shores form here two opposite
points; and both are formed of the same chalk hills, which have the
same configuration, so that a person acquainted with the English coasts
and approaching those of Picardy afterwards, without knowing them to be
such, would certainly take them to be the English ones. [1]

August the 9th–12th. We tided and alternately sailed down the channel,
and passed Dungness, Fairlight, the Isle of Wight, Portsmouth, the
Peninsula of Portland and Bolthead, a point behind which Plymouth lies;
during all which time we had very little wind.

August the 13th. Towards night we got out of the English channel into
the Bay of Biscay.

August the 14th. We had contrary wind, and this increased the rolling
of the ship, for it is generally remarked that the Bay of Biscay has
the greatest and broadest waves, which are of equal size with those
between America and Europe; they are commonly half an English mile in
length, and have a height proportionable to it. The Baltic and the
German ocean has on the contrary short and broken waves.

Whenever an animal is killed on board the ship, the sailors commonly
hang some fresh pieces of meat for a while into the sea, and it is
said, it then keeps better.

August the 15th. The same swell of the sea still continued, but the
waves began to smooth, and a foam swimming on them was said to forebode
in calm weather, a continuance of the same for some days.

About noon a north easterly breeze sprung up, and in the afternoon it
blew more, and this gave us a fine spectacle; for the great waves
rolled the water in great sheets, in one direction, and the north
easterly wind curled the surface of these waves quite in another. By
the beating and dashing of the waves against one another, with a more
than ordinary violence, we could see that we passed a current, whose
direction the captain could not determine.

August the 16th–21st. The same favourable breeze continued to our great
comfort and amazement, for the captain observed that it was very
uncommon to meet with an easterly or north-easterly wind between Europe
and the Azores (which the sailors call the Western Islands) for more
than two days together; for the more common wind is here a westerly
one: but beyond the Azores they find a great variety of winds,
especially about this time of the year; nor do the westerly winds
continue long beyond these isles; and to this it is owing, that when
navigators have passed the Azores, they think they have performed one
half of the voyage, although in reality it be but one third part. These
isles come seldom in sight; for the navigators keep off them, on
account of the dangerous rocks under water surrounding them. Upon
observation and comparison of the journal, we found that we were in
forty-three deg. twenty-four min. north lat. and thirty and a half
degrees west long. from London.

August the 22d. About noon the captain assured us, that in twenty-four
hours we should have a south-west wind: and upon my enquiring into the
reasons of his foretelling this with certainty, he pointed at some
clouds in the south-west, whose points turned towards north-east, and
said they were occasioned by a wind from the opposite quarter. At this
time I was told we were about half way to Pensylvania.

August the 23d. About seven o’clock in the morning the expected
south-west wind sprung up, and soon accelerated our course so much,
that we went at the rate of eight knots an hour.

August the 24th. The wind shifted and was in our teeth. We were told by
some of the crew to expect a little storm, the higher clouds being very
thin and striped and scattered about the sky like parcels of combed
wool, or so many skains of yarn, which they said forebode a storm.
These striped clouds ran north-west and south-east, in the direction of
the wind we then had. Towards night the wind abated and we had a
perfect calm, which is a sign of a change of wind.

August the 25th. and 26th. A west wind sprung up and grew stronger and
stronger, so that at last the waves washed our deck.

August the 27th. In the morning we got a better wind, which went
through various points of the compass and brought on a storm from
north-east towards night.

Our captain told me an observation founded on long experience, viz.
that though the winds changed frequently in the Atlantic ocean,
especially in summer time, the most frequent however was the western,
and this accounts for the passage from America to Europe commonly being
shorter, than that from Europe to America. Besides this, the winds in
the Atlantic during summer are frequently partial, so that a storm may
rage on one part of it, and within a few miles of the place little or
no storm at all may be felt. In winter the winds are more constant,
extensive and violent; so that then the same wind reigns on the greater
part of the ocean for a good while, and causes greater waves than in
summer.

August the 30th. As I had observed the night before some strong flashes
of lightening without any subsequent clap of thunder, I enquired of our
captain, whether he could assign any reasons for it. He told me these
phœnomena were pretty common, and the consequence of a preceding heat
in the atmosphere; but that when lightenings were observed in winter,
prudent navigators were used to reef their sails, as they are by this
sign certain of an impendent storm; and so likewise in that season, a
cloud rising from the north-west, is an infallible forerunner of a
great tempest.

September the 7th. As we had the first day of the month contrary wind,
on the second it shifted to the north, was again contrary the third,
and fair the fourth and following days. The fifth we were in forty deg.
three min. north lat. and between fifty-three and fifty-four deg. west
long. from London.

Besides the common waves rolling with the wind, we met on the 4th. and
5th. inst. with waves coming from south-west, which the captain gave as
a mark of a former storm from that quarter in this neighbourhood.

September the 8th. We crossed by a moderate wind, a sea with the
highest waves we met on the whole passage, attributed by the captain to
the division between the great ocean and the inner American gulf; and
soon after we met with waves greatly inferior to those we observed
before.

September the 9th. In the afternoon we remarked that in some places the
colour of the sea (which had been hitherto of a deep blue) was changed
into a paler hue; some of these spots were narrow stripes of twelve or
fourteen fathoms breadth, of a pale green colour, which is supposed to
be caused by the sand, or as some say, by the weeds under water.

September the 12th. We were becalmed that day, and as we in this
situation observed a ship, which we suspected to be a Spanish
privateer, our fear was very great; but we saw some days after our
arrival at Philadelphia the same ship arrive, and heard that they
seeing us had been under the same apprehensions with ourselves.

September the 13th. Captain Lawson, who kept his bed for the greater
part of the voyage, on account of an indisposition, assured us
yesterday we were in all appearance very near America: but as the mate
was of a different opinion, and as the sailors could see no land from
the head of the mast, nor find ground by the lead, we steered on
directly towards the land. About three o’clock in the morning the
captain gave orders to heave the lead, and we found but ten fathom: the
second mate himself took the lead and called out ten and fourteen
fathoms, but a moment after the ship struck on the sand, and this shock
was followed by four other very violent ones. The consternation was
incredible; and very justly might it be so; for there were above eighty
persons on board, and the ship had but one boat: but happily our ship
got off again, after having been turned. At day break, which followed
soon after (for the accident happened half an hour past four) we saw
the continent of America within a Swedish mile before us: the coast was
whitish, low, and higher up covered with firs. We found out, that the
sand we struck on, lay opposite Arcadia in Maryland, in thirty-seven
deg. fifty min. North lat.

We coasted the shores of Maryland all the day, but not being able to
reach cape Hinlopen, where we intended to take a pilot on board, we
cruized all night before the bay of Delaware. The darkness of the night
made us expert a rain, but we found that only a copious fall of dew
ensued, which made our coats quite wet, and the pages of a book,
accidently left open on the deck, were in half an hours time after
sun-setting likewise wet, and we were told by the captain and the
sailors that both in England and in America a copious dew was commonly
followed by a hot and sultry day.

September the 14th. We saw land on our larboard in the west, which
appeared to be low, white, sandy, and higher up the country covered
with firs, cape Hinlopen is a head of land running into the sea from
the western shore, and has a village on it. The eastern shore belongs
here to New Jersey, and the western to Pensylvania. The bay of Delaware
has many sands, and from four to eleven fathom water.

The fine woods of oak, hiccory and firs covering both shores made a
fine appearance, and were partly employed in ship-building at
Philadelphia; for which purpose every year some English captains take a
passage in autumn to this town, and superintend the building of new
ships during winter, with which they go to sea next spring: and at this
time it was more usual than common, as the French and Spanish
privateers had taken many English merchant ships.

A little after noon we reached the mouth of Delaware river, which is
here about three English miles broad, but decreases gradually so much,
that it is scarcely a mile broad at Philadelphia.

Here we were delighted in seeing now and then between the woods some
farm houses surrounded with corn fields, pastures well-stocked with
cattle, and meadows covered with fine hay; and more than one sense was
agreeably affected, when the wind brought to us the finest effluvia of
odoriferous plants and flowers, or that of the fresh made hay: these
agreeable sensations and the fine scenery of nature on this continent,
so new to us, continued till it grew quite dark.

Here I will return to sea, and give the reader a short view of the
various occurrences belonging to Natural-History, during our crossing
the Ocean.

Of sea weeds (Fucus linn.) we saw August the 16th. and 17th. a kind
which had a similarity to a bunch of onions tied together, these
bunches were of the size of the fist, and of a white colour. Near the
coast of America within the American gulf, September the 11th. we met
likewise with several sea weeds, one species of which was called by the
sailors rock-weed; another kind looked like a string of pearls, and
another was white, about a foot long, narrow, every where equally wide
and quite strait. From August the 24th. to September the 11th. we saw
no other weeds, but those commonly going under the name of Gulf-weed,
because they are supposed to come from the gulf of Florida; others call
it Sargazo, and Dr. Linnæus, Fucus natans. Its stalk is very slender,
rotundato-angulated, and of a dark green, it has many branches and each
of them has numerous leaves disposed in a row, they are extremely thin,
are serrated, and are a line or a line and a half wide, so that they
bear a great resemblance to the leaves of Iceland-moss; their colour is
a yellowish green. Its fruit in a great measure resembles unripe
juniper berries, is round, greenish yellow, almost smooth on the
outside, and grows under the leaves on short footstalks, of two or
three lines length; under each leaf are from one to three berries, but
I never have seen them exceed that number. Some berries were small, and
when cut were quite hollow and consisted of a thin peel only, which is
calculated to communicate their buoyancy to the whole plant. The leaves
grow in proportion narrower, as they approach the extremities of the
branches: their upper sides are smooth, the ribs are on the under
sides, and there likewise appear small roots of two, three or four
lines length. I was told by our mate that gulf weed, dried and pounded,
was given in America to women in childbed, and besides this it is also
used there in fevers. The whole ocean is as if it were covered with
this weed, and it must also be in immense quantities in the gulf of
Florida, from whence all this driving on the ocean is said to come.
Several little shells pointed like horns, and Escharæ or Horn wracks
are frequently found on it: and seldom is there one bundle of this
plant to be met with, which does not contain either a minute shrimp, or
a small crab, the latter of which is the Cancer minutus of Dr. Linnæus.
Of these I collected eight, and of the former three, all which I put in
a glass with water: the little shrimp moved as swift as an arrow round
the glass, but sometimes its motion was slow, and sometimes it stood
still on one side, or at the bottom of the glass. If one of the little
crabs approached, it was seized by its forepaws, killed and sucked; for
which reason they were careful to avoid their fate. It was quite of the
shape of a shrimp; in swimming it moved always on one side, the sides
and the tail moving alternately. It was capable of putting its forepaws
entirely into its mouth: its antennæ were in continual motion. Having
left these little shrimps together with the crabs during night, I found
on the morning all the crabs killed and eaten by the shrimps. The
former moved when alive with incredible swiftness in the water.
Sometimes when they were quite at the bottom of the glass, with a
motion something like to that of a Puceron or Podura of Linnæus; they
came in a moment to the surface of the water. In swimming they moved
all their feet very close, sometimes they held them down as other crabs
do, sometimes they lay on their backs, but as soon as the motion of
their feet ceased, they always sunk to the bottom. The remaining
shrimps I preserved in spirits, and the loss of my little crabs was
soon repaired by other specimens which are so plentiful in each of the
floating bundles of gulf-weed. For a more minute description of which I
must refer the reader to another work, I intend to publish. In some
places we saw a crab of the size of the fist, swimming by the continual
motion of its feet, which being at rest, the animal began immediately
to sink. And one time I met with a great red crawfish, or lobster,
floating on the surface of the sea.

Blubbers, or Medusæ Linn., we found of three kinds: the first is the
Medusa aurita Linn.; it is round, purple coloured, opens like a bag,
and in it are as if it were four white rings, their size varies from
one inch diameter to six inches; they have not that nettling and
burning quality which other blubbers have, such for instance as are on
the coast of Norway, and in the ocean. These we met chiefly in the
channel and in the Bay of Biscay.

After having crossed more than half of the ocean between Europe and
America, we met with a kind of blubber, which is known to Sailors by
the name of the Spanish or Portugueze man of War, it looks like a great
bladder, or the lungs of a quadruped, compressed on both sides, about
six inches in diameter, of a fine purple-red colour, and when touched
by the naked skin of the human body, it causes a greater burning than
any other kind of blubber. They are often overturned by the rolling of
the waves, but they are again standing up in an instant, and keep the
sharp or narrow side uppermost.

Within the American gulf we saw not only these Spanish men of War, but
another kind too, for which the Sailors had no other name but that of a
blubber. It was of the size of a pewter plate, brown in the middle,
with a pale margin, which was in continual motion.

Of the Lepas anatifera Linn. I saw on the 30th. of August a log of
wood, which floated on the ocean, quite covered. Of insects I saw in
the channel, when we were in sight of the Isle of Wight several white
butterflies, very like to the Papilio Brassicæ Linn. They never
settled, and by their venturing at so great a distance from land they
caused us just astonishment.

Some common flies were in our cabbin alive during the whole voyage, and
it cannot therefore be determined whether they were originally in
America, or whether they came over with the Europeans.

Of Cetaceous fish we met with Porpesses, or as some sailors call them
Sea-hogs [2] (Delphinus Phocæna, Linn.) first in the channel and then
they continued every where on this side the Azores, where they are the
only fish navigators meet with; but beyond these isles they are seldom
seen, till again in the neighbourhood of America we saw them equally
frequent to the very mouth of Delaware river. They always appeared in
shoals, some of which consisted of upwards of an hundred individuals;
their swimming was very swift, and though they often swam along side of
our ship, being taken as it were with the noise caused by the ship
cutting the waves, they however soon outwent her, when they were tired
with staring at her. They are from four to eight feet long, have a bill
like in shape to that of a goose, a white belly, and leap up into the
air frequently four feet high, and from four to eight feet in length;
though their snoring indicates the effort which a leap of that nature
costs them. Our sailors made many vain attempts to strike one of them
with the harp iron from the forecastle, when they came within reach,
but their velocity always eluded their skill.

Another cetaceous fish, of the Dolphin kind, [3] with which we met, is
called by the sailors Bottle-nose, it swims in great shoals, has a head
like a bottle, and is killed by a harpoon, and is sometimes eaten.
These fish are very large, and some fully twelve feet long; their
shape, and manner of tumbling and swimming make them nearly related to
Porpesses. They are to be met with every where in the ocean from the
channel to the very neighbourhood of America.

One Whale we saw at a distance, and knew it by the water which it
spouted up.

A Dog-fish of a considerable size followed the ship for a little while,
but it was soon out of sight, without our being able to determine to
which species it belonged: this was the only cartilaginous fish we saw
on the whole passage.

Of the bony fish, we saw several beyond the Azores, but never one on
this side of those isles, one of them was of a large size, and we saw
it at a distance; the sailors called it an Albecor, and it is Dr.
Linnæus’s Scomber Thynnus.

The Dolphin of the English is the Dorado of the Portugueze, and Dr.
Linnæus calls it Coryphæna Hippuris; it is about two feet and a half
long, near the head six inches deep, and three inches broad; from the
head the Dolphin decreases on all sides towards the tail, where its
perpendicular depth is one inch and a half, and its breadth hardly one
inch. The colour of the back near the head is a fine green on a silver
ground, but near the tail of a deep blue; the belly is white, and
sometimes mixed with a deep yellow, on the sides it has some round pale
brown spots. It has six and not seven fins as was imagined; two of them
are on the breast, two on the belly, one at the tail extending to the
anus, and one along the whole back, which is of a fine blue: when the
fish is just taken the extremities of the most outward rays in the tail
were eight inches one from another. Their motion when they swam behind,
or along side of the ship was very slow, and gave a fair opportunity to
hit them with the harpoon, though some are taken with a hook and line,
and a bait of chicken bowels, small fish, or pieces of his own species,
or the flying fish, which latter are their chief food: and it is by
their chasing them, that the flying fish leave their element to find
shelter in one to which they are strangers. The Dolphins sometimes leap
a fathom out of the water, and love to swim about casks and logs of
wood, that sometimes drive in the sea. They are eaten with thick
butter, when boiled, and sometimes fried, and afford a palatable food,
but rather somewhat dry. In the bellies of the fish of this species
which we caught, several animals were found, viz. an Ostracion; a
little fish with blue eyes, which was yet alive, being just the moment
before swallowed, and measuring two inches in length; another little
fish; a curious marine insect, and a flying fish, all which not yet
being damaged by digestion, I preserved in spirits.

The Flying Fish (Exocoetus volitans, Linn.) are always seen in great
shoals, sometimes of an hundred or more getting at once out of the
water, being pursued by greater fish, and chiefly by Dolphins; they
rise about a yard, and even a fathom above the water in their flight,
but this latter height they only are at, when they take their flight
from the top of a wave; and sometimes it is said they fall on the deck
of ships. The greatest distance they fly, is a good musket-shot, and
this they perform in less than half a minute’s time; their motion is
somewhat like that of the yellow-hammer, (Emberiza Citrinella, Linn.).
It is very remarkable that I found the course they took always to be
against the wind, and though I was contradicted by the sailors, who
affirmed that they went at any direction, I nevertheless was confirmed
in my opinion by a careful observation during the whole voyage,
according to which they fly constantly either directly against the
wind, or somewhat in an oblique direction. [4]

We saw likewise the fish called Bonetos, (Scomber Pelamys, Linn.) they
were likewise in shoals, hunting some smaller fish, which chase caused
a noise like to that of a cascade, because they were all swimming close
in a body; but they always kept out of the reach of our harpoons.

Of amphibious animals, or reptiles; we met twice with a Turtle, one of
which was sleeping, the other swam without taking notice of our ship;
both were of two feet diameter.

Birds are pretty frequently seen on the ocean, though Aquatic Birds are
more common than Land Birds.

The Petrel (Procellaria Pelagica, Linn.) was our companion from the
channel to the shores of America. Flocks of this bird were always about
our ship, chiefly in that part of the sea, which being cut by the ship,
forms a smooth surface, where they frequently seem to settle, though
always on the wing. They pick up or examine every thing that falls
accidentally from the ship, or is thrown over board: little fish seem
to be their chief food; in day time they are silent, in the dark
clamorous; they are reputed to forebode a storm, for which reason the
sailors disliking their company, complimented them with the name of
witches; but they are as frequent in fair weather, without a storm
following their appearance. To me it appeared as if they stayed
sometimes half an hour and longer under the waves, and the sailors
assured me they did. They look like swallows, and like them they skim
sometimes on the water.

The Shearwater (Procellaria Puffinus, Linn.) is another sea-bird, which
we saw every where on our voyage, from the channel to the American
coasts; it has much the appearance and size of the dark-grey Sea-gull,
or of a Duck; it has a brown back, and commonly a white ring round its
neck, and a peculiar slow way of flying. We plainly saw some of these
birds feed on fish.

The Tropic bird (Phaëton æthereus, Linn.) has very much the shape of a
gull, but two very long feathers, which it has in its tail, distinguish
it enough from any other bird; its flight is often exceedingly high:
the first of this kind we met, was at about forty deg. north lat. and
forty-nine or fifty deg. west long. from London.

Common Gulls (Larus canus, Linn.) we saw, when we were opposite the
Land’s End, the most westerly cape of England, and when according to
our reckoning we were opposite Ireland.

Terns (Sterna hirundo, Linn.) though of a somewhat darker colour than
the common ones, we found after the forty-first deg. of north lat. and
forty-seventh deg. west long. from London, very plentifully, and
sometimes in flocks of some hundreds; sometimes they settled, as if
tired, on our ship.

Within the American gulph we discovered a sea-bird at a little distance
from the ship, which the sailors called a Sea-hen.

Land-birds are now and then seen at sea, and sometimes at a good
distance from any land, so that it is often difficult, to account for
their appearance in so uncommon a place. August the 18th. we saw a bird
which settled on our ship, and was perfectly like the great Titmouse,
(Parus major, Linn.) upon an attempt to catch it, it got behind the
sails, and could never be caught.

September the 1st. We observed some Land-birds flying about our ship,
which we took for Sand Martins (Hirundo riparia, Linn.) sometimes they
settled on our ship, or on the sails; they were of a greyish brown
colour on their back, their breast white, and the tail somewhat
furcated; a heavy shower of rain drove them afterwards away, September
the 2d. a Swallow fluttered about the ship, and sometimes it settled on
the mast; it seemed to be very tired; several times it approached our
cabin windows, as if it was willing to take shelter there. These cases
happened about forty deg. north lat. and between forty-seven and
forty-nine deg. west long. from London, and also about twenty deg.
long. or more than nine hundred and twenty sea miles from any land
whatsoever.

September the 10th. within the American gulph a large bird, which we
took for an Owl, and likewise a little bird settled on our sails.

September the 12th. a Wood-pecker settled on our rigging: its back was
of a speckled grey, and it seemed extremely fatigued. And another
land-bird of the passerine class, endeavoured to take shelter and rest
on our ship.

Before I entirely take leave of the sea, I will communicate my
observations on two curious phœnomena.

In the channel and in the ocean we saw at night time, sparks of fire,
as if flowing on the water, especially where it was agitated, sometimes
one single spark swam for the space of more than one minute on the
ocean before it vanished. The sailors observed them commonly to appear
during, and after a storm from the north, and that often the sea is as
if it were full of fire, and that some such shining sparks would
likewise stick to the masts and sails.

Sometimes this light had not the appearance of sparks, but looked
rather like the phosphorescence of putrid wood.

The Thames-water which made our provision of fresh water, is reputed to
be the best of any. It not only settled in the oak casks it is kept in,
but becomes in a little time stinking, when stopped up; however this
nauseous smell it soon looses, after being filled into large stone
juggs, and exposed to the open fresh air for two or three hours
together. Often the vapours arising from a cask which has been kept
close and stopped up for a great while take fire, if a candle is held
near them when the cask is opened, and the Thames water is thought to
have more of this quality than any other; though I was told that this
even happened with any other water in the same circumstances.

Now I can resume my narrative, and therefore observe that we afterwards
sailed on the river with a fair wind, pretty late at night. In the dawn
of the evening we passed by Newcastle, a little town on the western
shore of the river Delaware. It was already so dark, that we could
hardly know it, but by the light which appeared through some of the
windows. The Dutch are said to have been the first founders of this
place, which is therefore reckoned the most ancient in the country,
even more ancient than Philadelphia. But its trade can by no means be
compared with the Philadelphia trade, though its situation has more
advantages in several respects; one of which is, that the river seldom
freezes before it, and consequently ships can come in and go out at any
time. But near Philadelphia it is almost every winter covered with ice,
so that navigation is interrupted for some weeks together. But the
country about Philadelphia and farther up, being highly cultivated, and
the people bringing all their goods to that place, Newcastle must
always be inferior to it.

I mentioned, that the Dutch laid the foundations of this town. This
happened at the time, when this country was as yet subject to Sweden.
But the Dutch crept in, and intended by degrees to dispossess the
Swedes, as a people who had taken possession of their property. They
succeeded in their attempt; for the Swedes not being able to bear with
this encroachment, came to a war, in which the Dutch got the better.
But they did not enjoy the fruits of their victory long: for a few
years after, the English came and deprived them of their acquisition,
and have ever since continued in the undisturbed possession of the
country. Somewhat later at night we cast anchor, the pilot not
venturing to carry the ship up the river in the dark, several sands
being in the way.

September 15th. In the dawn of the morning we weighed anchor, and
continued our voyage up the river. The country was inhabited almost
every where on both sides. The farm-houses were however pretty far
asunder. About eight o’clock in the morning we sailed by the little
town of Chester, on the western side of the river. In this town, our
mate, who was born in Philadelphia, shewed me the places, which the
Swedes still inhabit.

At last we arrived in Philadelphia about ten o’Clock in the morning. We
had not been more than six weeks, or (to speak more accurately) not
quite forty one days on our voyage from Gravesend to this place,
including the time we spent at Deal, in supplying ourselves with the
necessary fresh provisions, &c. our voyage was therefore reckoned one
of the shortest. For it is common in winter time to be fourteen,
nineteen, or more weeks in coming from Gravesend to Philadelphia.
Hardly any body ever had a more pleasant voyage over this great ocean,
than we had. Captain Lawson affirmed this several times. Nay he assured
us he had never seen such calm weather in this ocean, though he had
crossed it very often. The wind was generally so favourable that a boat
of a middling size might have sailed in perfect safety. The sea never
went over our cabin, and but once over the deck, and that was only in a
swell. The weather indeed was so clear, that a great number of the
Germans on board slept on the deck. The cabin windows needed not the
shutters. All these are circumstances which show the uncommon goodness
of the weather.

Captain Lawson’s civility increased the pleasure of the voyage. For he
shewed me all the friendship, that he could have shewn to any of his
relations.

As soon as we were come to the town, and had cast anchor, many of the
inhabitants came on board, to enquire for Letters. They took all those
which they could carry, either for themselves or for their friends.
Those, which remained, the captain ordered to be carried on shore, and
to be brought into a coffee-house, where every body could make enquiry
for them, and by this means he was rid of the trouble of delivering
them himself. I afterwards went on shore with him. But before he went,
he strictly charged the second mate, to let no one of the German
refugees out of the ship, unless he paid for his passage, or some body
else paid for him, or bought him.

On my leaving London I received letters of recommendation from Mr.
Abraham Spalding, Mr. Peter Collinson, Dr. Mitchel, and others to their
friends here. It was easy for me therefore to get acquaintance. Mr.
Benjamin Franklin, to whom Pensylvania is indebted for its welfare, and
the learned world for many new discoveries in Electricity, was the
first, who took notice of me, and introduced me to many of his friends.
He gave me all necessary instructions, and shewed me his kindness on
many occasions.

I went to day accompanied by Mr. Jacob Bengtson, a member of the
Swedish consistory and the sculptor Gustavus Hesselius, to see the town
and the fields which lay before it. (The former is brother of the rev.
Messrs. Andrew and Samuel Hesselius, both ministers at Christiana in
new Sweden, and of the late Dr. John Hesselius in the provinces of
Nerik and Wermeland). My new friend had followed his brother Andrew in
1711 to this country, and had since lived in it. I found that I was now
come into a new world. Whenever I looked to the ground, I every where
found such plants as I had never seen before. When I saw a tree, I was
forced to stop, and ask those who accompanied me, how it was called.
The first plant which struck my eyes was an Andropogon, or a kind of
grass, and grass is a part of Botany I always delighted in. I was
seized with terror at the thought of ranging so many new and unknown
parts of natural history. At first I only considered the plants,
without venturing a more accurate examination.

At night I took up my lodging with a grocer who was a quaker, and I met
with very good honest people in this house, such as most people of this
profession appeared to me, I and my Yungstrœm, the companion of my
voyage, had a room, candles, beds, attendance, and three meals a day,
if we chose to have so many, for twenty shillings per week in
Pensylvania currency. But wood, washing and wine, if required, were to
be paid for besides.

September the 16th. Before I proceed I must give a short description of
Philadelphia, which I shall frequently mention in the sequel of my
travels. I here put down several particulars which I marked during my
stay at that place, as a help to memory.

Philadelphia, the capital of Pensylvania, a province which makes part
of what formerly was called New Sweden is one of the principal towns in
North-America; and next to Boston the greatest. It is situated almost
in the center of the English colonies, and its lat. is thirty nine deg.
and fifty min. but its west long. from London near seventy five deg.

This town was built in the year 1683, or as others say in 1682, by the
well known quaker William Pen, who got this whole province by a grant
from Charles the second, king of England; after Sweden had given up its
claims to it. According to Pen’s plan the town was to have been built
upon a piece of land which is formed by the union of the rivers
Delaware and Skulkill, in a quadrangular form, two English miles long
and one broad. The eastern side would therefore have been bounded by
the Delaware, and the western by the Skulkill. They had actually begun
to build houses on both these rivers; for eight capital streets, each
two English miles long, and sixteen lesser streets (or lanes) across
them, each one mile in length, were marked out, with a considerable
breadth, and in strait lines. The place was at that time almost an
entire wilderness covered with thick forests, and belonged to three
Swedish brothers called Sven’s-Sœner (Sons of Sven) who had settled in
it. They with difficulty left the place, the situation of which was
very advantageous, But at last they were persuaded to it by Pen, who
gave them a few English miles from that place twice the space of
country they inhabited. However Pen himself and his descendants after
him, have considerably lessened the ground belonging to them, by
repeated mensurations, under pretence that they had taken more than
they ought.

But the inhabitants could not be got in sufficient number to fill a
place of such extent. The plan therefore about the river Skulkill was
laid aside till more favourable circumstances should occur, and the
houses were only built along the Delaware. This river flows along the
eastern side of the town, is of great advantage to its trade, and gives
a fine prospect. The houses which had already been built upon the
Skulkill were transplanted hitherto by degrees. This town accordingly
lies in a very pleasant country, from north to south along the river.
It measures somewhat more than an English mile in length; and its
breadth in some places is half a mile or more. The ground is flat and
consists of sand mixed with a little clay. Experience has shewn that
the air of this place is very healthy.

The streets are regular, fine, and most of them are fifty foot, English
measure, broad; Arch-street measures sixty six feet in breadth, and
Market-street or the principal street, where the market is kept, near a
hundred. Those which run longitudinally, or from north to south are
seven, exclusive of a little one, which runs along the river, to the
south of the market, and is called Water-street. The lanes which go
across, and were intended to reach from the Delaware to the Skulkill,
are eight in number. They do not go quite from east to west, but
deviate a little from that direction. All the streets except two which
are nearest to the river, run in a straight line, and make right angles
at the intersections. Some are paved, others are not; and it seems less
necessary since the ground is sandy, and therefore soon absorbs the
wet. But in most of the streets is a pavement of flags, a fathom or
more broad, laid before the houses, and posts put on the outside three
or four fathom asunder. Under the roofs are gutters which are carefully
connected with pipes, and by this means, those who walk under them,
when it rains, or when the snow melts, need not fear being wetted by
the dropping from the roofs.

The houses make a good appearance, are frequency several stories high,
and built either of bricks or of stone; but the former are more
commonly used, since bricks are made before the town, and are well
burnt. The stone which has been employed in the building of other
houses, is a mixture of black or grey glimmer, running in undulated
veins, and of a loose, and quite small grained limestone, which run
scattered between the bendings of the other veins, and are of a grey
colour, excepting here and there some single grains of sand, of a paler
hue. The glimmer makes the greatest part of the stone; but the mixture
is sometimes of another kind, as I shall relate hereafter under the
article, eleventh of October. This stone is now got in great quantities
in the country, is easily cut, and has the good quality of not
attracting the moisture in a wet season. Very good lime is burnt every
where hereabouts, for masonry.

The houses are covered with shingles. The wood for this purpose is
taken from the Cupressus thyoides, Linn. or a tree which Swedes here
call the white juniper-tree, and the English, the white cedar. Swamps
and Morasses formerly were full of them, but at present these trees are
for the greatest part cut down, and no attempt has as yet been made to
plant new ones. The wood is very light, rots less than any other in
this country, and for that reason is exceeding good for roofs. For it
is not too heavy for the walls, and will serve for forty or fifty years
together. But many people already begin to fear, that these roofs will
in time be looked upon as having been very detrimental to the city. For
being so very light, most people who have built their houses of stone,
or bricks, have been led to make their walls extremely thin. But at
present this kind of wood is almost entirely destroyed. Whenever
therefore in process of time these roofs decay, the people will be
obliged to have recourse to the heavier materials of tiles, or the
like, which the walls will not be strong enough to bear. The roof will
therefore require supports, or the people be obliged to pull down the
walls and to build new ones, or to take other steps for securing them.
Several people have already in late years begun to make roofs of tiles.

Among the publick buildings I will first mention churches, of which
there are several, for God is served in various ways in this country.

1. The English established church stands in the northern part of the
town, at some distance from the market, and is the finest of all. It
has a little, inconsiderable steeple, in which is a bell to be rung
when it is time to go to church, and on burials. It has likewise a
clock which strikes the hours. This building which is called Christ
church, was founded towards the end of the last century, but has lately
been rebuilt and more adorned. It has two ministers who get the
greatest part of their salary from England. In the beginning of this
century, the Swedish minister the Rev. Mr. Rudmann, performed the
functions of a clergyman to the English congregation for near two
years, during the absence of their own clergyman.

2. The Swedish church, which is otherwise called the church of
Weekacko, is on the southern part of the town, and almost without it,
on the river’s side, and its situation is therefore more agreeable than
that of any other. I shall have an opportunity of describing it more
exactly, when I shall speak of the Swedes in particular, who live in
this place.

3. The German Lutheran church, is on the north-west side of the town.
On my arrival in America it had a little steeple, but that being but up
by an ignorant architect, before the walls of the church were quite
dry, they leaned forwards by its weight, and therefore they were forced
to pull it down again in the autumn of the year 1750. About that time
the congregation received a fine organ from Germany. They have only one
minister, who likewise preaches at another Lutheran church in
Germantown. He preaches alternately one sunday in that church, and
another in this. The first clergyman which the Lutherans had in this
town, was the Rev. Mr. Muhlenberg, who laid the foundations of this
church in 1743, and being called to another place afterwards, the rev.
Mr. Brunholz from Sleswick was his successor, and is yet here. Both
these gentlemen were sent to this place from Hall in Saxony, and have
been a great advantage to it by their peculiar talent of preaching in
an edifying manner. A little while before this church was built, the
Lutheran Germans had no clergyman for themselves, so that the
every-where beloved Swedish minister at Weekacko, Mr. Dylander,
preached likewise to them. He therefore preached three sermons every
sunday; the first early in the morning to the Germans; the second to
the Swedes, and the third in the afternoon to the English, and besides
this he went all the week into the country and instructed the Germans
who lived separately there. He therefore frequently preached sixteen
sermons a week. And after his death, which happened in November 1741,
the Germans first wrote to Germany for a clergyman for themselves. This
congregation is at present very numerous, so that every sunday the
church is very much crowded. It has two galleries, but no vestry. They
do not sing the collects, but read them before the altar.

4. The old Presbyterian church, is not far from the market, and on the
south-side of market-street. It is of a middling size, and built in the
year 1704, as the inscription on the northern pediment shews. The roof
is built almost hemispherical, or at least forms a hexagon. The whole
building stands from north to south, for the presbyterians do not
regard, as other people do, whether their churches look towards a
certain point of the heavens or not.

5. The new Presbyterian church was built in the year 1750, by the
New-lights in the north-western part of the town. By the name of
New-lights, are understood the people who have, from different
religions, become proselytes to the well known Whitefield, who in the
years 1739, 1740, and likewise in 1744 and 1745 travelled through
almost all the English colonies. His delivery, his extraordinary zeal,
and other talents so well adapted to the intelects of his hearers, made
him so popular that he frequently, especially in the two first years,
got from eight thousand to twenty thousand hearers in the fields. His
intention in these travels, was to collect money for an orphans
hospital which had been erected in Georgia. He here frequently
collected seventy pounds sterling at one sermon; nay, at two sermons
which he preached in the year 1740, both an one sunday, at
Philadelphia, he got an hundred and fifty pounds. The proselytes of
this man, or the above-mentioned new-lights, are at present merely a
sect of presbyterians. For though Whitefield was originally a clergyman
of the English church, yet he deviated by little and little from her
doctrines; and on arriving in the year 1744 at Boston in New England,
he disputed with the Presbyterians about their doctrines, so much that
he almost entirely embraced them. For Whitefield was no great
disputant, and could therefore easily be led by these cunning people,
whithersoever they would have him. This likewise during his latter stay
in America caused his audience to be less numerous than during the
first. The new-lights built first in the year 1741, a great house in
the western part of the town, to hold divine service in. But a division
arising amongst them after the departure of Whitefield, and besides on
other accounts, the building was sold to the town in the beginning of
the year 1750, and destined for a school. The new-lights then built a
church which I call the new Presbyterian one. On its eastern pediment
is the following inscription, in golden letters: Templum
Presbyterianum, annuente numine, erectum, Anno Dom. MDCCL.

6. The old German reformed church is built in the west north-west part
of the town, and looks like the church in the Ladugoordfield near
Stockholm. It is not yet finished, though for several years together,
the congregation has kept up divine service in it. These Germans
attended the German service at the Swedish church, whilst the Swedish
minister Mr. Dylander lived.—But as the Lutherans got a clergyman for
themselves on the death of the last, those of the reformed church made
likewise preparations to get one from Dordrecht; and the first who was
sent to them, was the Rev. Mr. Slaughter, whom I found on my arrival.
But in the year 1750, another clergyman of the reformed church arrived
from Holland, and by his artful behaviour, so insinuated himself into
the favour of the Rev. Mr. Slaughter’s congregation, that the latter
lost almost half his audience. The two clergymen then disputed for
several sundays together, about the pulpit, nay, people relate that the
new comer mounted the pulpit on a saturday, and stayed in it all night.
The other being thus excluded, the two parties in the audience, made
themselves the subject both of the laughter and of the scorn of the
whole town, by beating and bruising each other, and committing other
excesses. The affair was inquired into by the magistrates, and decided
in favour of the rev. Mr. Slaughter, the person who had been abused.

7. The new reformed church, was built at a little distance from the old
one by the party of the clergyman, who had lost his cause. This man
however had influence enough to bring over to his party almost the
whole audience of his antagonist, at the end of the year 1750, and
therefore this new church will soon be useless.

8. 9. The Quakers have two meetings, one in the market, and the other
in the northern part of the town. In them are according to the custom
of this people, neither altars, nor pulpits, nor any other ornaments
usual in churches; but only seats and some sconces. They meet thrice
every sunday in them, and besides that at certain times every week or
every month. I shall mention more about them hereafter.

10. The Baptists, have their service, in the northern part of the town.

11. The Roman Catholicks, have in the south-west part of the town a
great house, which is well adorned within, and has an organ.

12. The Moravian Brethren, have hired a great house, in the northern
part of the town, in which they performed the service both in German
and in English; not only twice or three times every sunday, but
likewise every night after it was grown dark. But in the winter of the
year 1750, they were obliged to drop their evening meetings; some
wanton young fellows having several times disturbed the congregation,
by an instrument sounding like the note of a cuckoo, for this noise
they made in a dark corner, not only at the end of every stanza, but
likewise at that of every line, whilst they were singing a hymn.

Those of the English church, the New-lights, the Quakers, and the
Germans of the reformed religion, have each of them their burying
places on one side out of town, and not near their churches, though the
first of these sometimes make an exception. All the others bury their
dead in their church-yards, and Moravian brethren bury where they can.
The Negroes are buried in a particular place out of town.

I now proceed to mention the other publick buildings in Philadelphia.

The Town-hall, or the place where the assemblies are held, is situated
in the western part of the town, it is a fine large building, having a
tower with a bell in the middle, and is the greatest ornament to the
town. The deputies of each province meet in it commonly every October,
or even more frequently if circumstances require it, in order to
consider of the welfare of the country, and to hold their parliaments
or diets in miniature. There they revise the old laws, and make new
ones.

On one side of this building stands the Library, which was first begun
in the year 1742, on a publick spirited plan, formed and put in
execution by the learned Mr. Franklin. For he persuaded first the most
substantial people in town to pay forty shillings at the outset, and
afterwards annually ten shillings, all in Pensylvania currency, towards
purchasing all kinds of useful books. The subscribers are entitled to
make use of the books. Other people are likewise at liberty to borrow
them for a certain time, but must leave a pledge and pay eight-pence a
week for a folio volume, six-pence for a quarto, and four-pence for all
others of a smaller size. As soon as the time, allowed a person for the
perusal of the volume, is elapsed, it must be returned, or he is fined.
The money arising in this manner is employed for the salary of the
librarian, and for purchasing new books. There was already a fine
collection of excellent works, most of them English; many French and
Latin, but few in any other language. The subscribers were so kind to
me, as to order the librarian, during my stay here, to lend me every
book, which I should want, without requiring any payment of me. The
library was open every saturday from four to eight o’clock in the
afternoon. Besides the books, several mathematical and physical
instruments, and a large collection of natural curiosities were to be
seen in it. Several little libraries were founded in the town on the
same footing or nearly with this.

The Court House stands in the middle of Market street, to the west of
the market, it is fine building, with a little tower in which there is
a bell. Below and round about this building the market is properly kept
every week.

The building of the Academy, is in the western part of the town. It was
formerly as I have before mentioned, a meeting-house of the followers
of Whitefield, but they sold it in the year 1750, and it was destined
to be the seat of an university, or to express myself in more exact
terms, to be a college, it was therefore fitted up to this purpose. The
youths are here only taught those things which they learn in our common
schools; but in time, such lectures are intended to be read here, as
are usual in real universities.

At the close of the last war, a redoubt was erected here, on the south
side of the town, near the river, to prevent the French and Spanish
privateers from landing. But this was done after a very strong debate.
For the quakers opposed all fortifications, as contrary to the tenets
of their religion, which allow not christians to make war either
offensive or defensive, but direct them to place their trust in the
Almighty alone. Several papers were then handed about for and against
the opinion. But the enemy’s privateers having taken several vessels
belonging to the town, in the river, many of the quakers, if not all of
them, found it reasonable to forward the building of the fortification
as much as possible, at least by a supply of money.

Of all the natural advantages of the town, its temperate climate is the
most considerable, the winter not being over severe, and its duration
but short, and the summer not too hot; the country round about bringing
forth those fruits in the greatest plenty, which are raised by
husbandry. Their September and October are like the beginning of the
Swedish August. And the first days in their February are frequently as
pleasant, as the end of April and the beginning of May in Sweden. Even
their coldest days in some winters have been no severer, than the days
at the end of autumn are in the middlemost parts of Sweden, and the
southern ones of Finland.

The good and clear water in Philadelphia, is likewise one of its
advantages. For though there are no fountains in the town, yet there is
a well in every house, and several in the streets, all which afford
excellent water for boiling, drinking, washing, and other uses. The
water is commonly met with at the depth of forty feet. The water of the
river Delaware is likewise good. But in making the wells, a fault is
frequently committed, which in several places of the town, spoils the
water which is naturally good; I shall in the sequel take an
opportunity of speaking further about it.

The Delaware is exceeding convenient for trade. It is one of the
greatest rivers in the world: is three English miles broad at its
mouth, two miles at the town of Wilmington, and three quarters of a
mile at Philadelphia. This city lies within ninety or an hundred
English miles from the sea, or from the place where the river Delaware
discharges itself into the bay of that name. Yet its depth is hardly
ever less than five or six fathom. The greatest ships therefore can
sail quite up to the town and anchor in good ground in five fathoms of
water, on the side of the bridge. The water here has no longer a
saltish taste, and therefore all destructive worms, which have fastened
themselves to the ships in the sea, and have pierced holes into them,
either die, or drop off, after the ship has been here for a while.

The only disadvantage which trade labours under here, is the freezing
of the river almost every winter for a month or more. For during that
time the navigation is entirely stopped. But this does not happen at
Boston, New York, and other towns which are nearer the sea.

The tide comes up to Philadelphia, and even goes thirty miles higher,
to Trenton. The difference between high and low water is eight feet at
Philadelphia.

The cataracts of the Delaware near Trenton, and of the Skulkill at some
distance from Philadelphia, make these rivers useless further up the
country, in regard to the conveyance of goods either from or to
Philadelphia. Both must therefore be carried on waggons or carts. It
has therefore already been thought of to make these two rivers
navigable in time, at least for large boats and small vessels.

Several ships are annually built of American oak, in the docks which
are made in several parts of the town and about it, yet they can by no
means be put in comparison with those built of European oak, in point
of goodness and duration.

The town carries on a great trade, both with the inhabitants of the
country, and to other parts of the world, especially to the West
Indies, South America, and the Antilles; to England, Ireland, Portugal,
and to several English colonies in North America. Yet none but English
ships are allowed to come into this port.

Philadelphia reaps the greatest profits from its trade to the West
Indies. For thither the inhabitants ship almost every day a quantity of
flour, butter, flesh and other victuals; timber, plank and the like. In
return they receive either sugar, molasses, rum, indigo, mahogany, and
other goods, or ready money. The true mahogany which grows in Jamaica,
is at present almost all cut down.

They send both West India goods, and their own productions to England;
the latter are all sorts of woods, especially black walnut, and oak
planks for ships; ships ready built, iron, hides and tar. Yet this
latter is properly bought in New Jersey, the forests of which province
are consequently more ruined than any others. Ready money is likewise
sent over to England, from whence in return they get all sorts of goods
there manufactured, viz. fine and coarse cloth, linen, iron ware, and
other wrought metals, and East India goods. For it is to be observed
that England supplies Philadelphia with almost all stuffs and
manufactured goods which are wanted here.

A great quantity of linseed goes annually to Ireland, together with
many of the ships which are built here. Portugal gets wheat, corn,
flour and maize which is not ground. Spain sometimes takes some corn.
But all the money, which is got in these several countries, must
immediately be sent to England, in payment for the goods which are got
from thence, and yet those sums are not sufficient to pay all the
debts.

But to shew more exactly, what the town and province have imported from
England, in different years, I shall here insert an extract from the
English custom-house books, which I got from the engineer, Lewis Evans,
at Philadelphia, and which will sufficiently answer the purpose. This
gentleman had desired one of his friends in London to send him a
compleat account of all the goods shipped from England to Pensylvania
in several years. He got this account, and though the goods are not
enumerated in it, yet their value in money is calculated. Such extracts
from the custom-house books have been made for every North-American
province, in order to convince the English parliament, that those
provinces have taken greater quantities of the goods in that kingdom,
ever since they have turned their money into bills.

I have taken the copy from the original itself, and it is to be
observed that it begins with the christmas of the year 1722, and ends
about the same time of the year 1747. In the first column is the value
of the foreign goods, the duty for which has already been paid in
England. The second column shews the value of the goods manufactured in
England and exported to Pensylvania. And in the last column these two
sums are added together, but at the bottom each of the columns is cast
up.

But this table does not include the goods which are annually shipped in
great quantities to Pensylvania from Scotland and Ireland, among which
is a great quantity of linen.


+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
|          The Value of the Goods annually shipped from           |
|                     England to Pensylvania.                     |
+---------+-------------------+----------------+------------------+
|The Year,|Foreign Goods for  |                |The Sums of these |
|from one |which the duty has | English        |two preceding     |
|Christmas|already been paid, | manufactured   |columns added     |
|    to   |& which therefore  | Goods.         |together.         |
| another.|only req. receipts.|                |                  |
+---------+-------------------+----------------+------------------+
|         |  l.     s.     d. |   l.    s.  d. |   l.    s.    d. |
|  1723   | 5199 |  13 |   5  | 10793|  5 | 1  | 15992 | 19 |  4  |
|  1724   | 9373 |  15 |   8  | 20951|  0 | 5  | 30324 | 16 |  1  |
|  1725   |10301 |  12 |   6  | 31508|  1 | 8  | 42209 | 14 |  2  |
|  1726   | 9371 |  11 |   6  | 28263|  6 | 2  | 37634 | 17 |  8  |
|  1727   |10243 |   0 |   7  | 21736| 10 | 0  | 31979 | 10 |  7  |
|  1728   |14073 |  13 |   3  | 23405|  6 | 2  | 37478 | 19 | 11  |
|  1729   |12948 |   8 |   5  | 16851|  2 | 5  | 29799 | 10 | 10  |
|  1730   |15660 |  10 |  11  | 32931| 16 | 6  | 48592 |  7 |  5  |
|  1731   |11838 |  17 |   4  | 32421| 18 | 9  | 44260 | 16 |  1  |
|  1732   |15240 |  14 |   4  | 26457| 19 | 3  | 41698 | 13 |  7  |
|  1733   |13187 |   0 |   8  | 27378|  7 | 5  | 40585 |  8 |  1  |
|  1734   |19648 |  15 |   9  | 34743| 12 | 1  | 54392 |  7 | 10  |
|  1735   |18078 |   4 |   3  | 30726|  7 | 1  | 48804 | 11 |  4  |
|  1736   |23456 |  15 |  11  | 38057|  2 | 5  | 61513 | 18 |  4  |
|  1737   |14517 |   4 |   3  | 42173|  2 | 4  | 56690 |  6 |  7  |
|  1738   |20320 |  19 |   3  | 41129|  5 | 0  | 61450 |  4 |  3  |
|  1739   | 9041 |   4 |   5  | 45411|  7 | 6  | 54452 | 11 | 11  |
|  1740   |10280 |   2 |   0  | 46471| 12 | 9  | 56751 | 14 |  9  |
|  1741   |12977 |  18 |  10  | 78032| 13 | 1  | 91010 | 11 | 11  |
|  1742   |14458 |   6 |   3  | 60836| 17 | 1  | 75295 |  3 |  4  |
|  1743   |19220 |   1 |   6  | 60120|  4 |10  | 79340 |  6 |  4  |
|  1744   |14681 |   8 |   4  | 47595| 18 | 2  | 62214 |  6 |  6  |
|  1745   |13043 |   8 |   8  | 41237|  2 | 3  | 54280 | 10 | 11  |
|  1746   |18103 |  12 |   7  | 55595| 19 | 7  | 73699 | 12 |  2  |
|  1747   | 8585 |  14 |  11  | 73819|  2 | 8  | 82404 | 17 |  7  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------|
|  Total. 343,789   16     0  969,049   1   6  1,312,838 17    6  |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------+


The whole extent of the Philadelphia trade may be comprehended from the
number of ships, which annually arrive at and sail from this town. I
intend to insert here a table of a few years which I have taken from
the gazettes of the town. The ships coming and going in one year, are
to be reckoned from the twenty fifth of March of that year, to the
twenty fifth of March of the next.


               The Year.   Ships arrived.   Ships sailed.

                1735              199             212
                1740              307             208
                1741              292             309
                1744              229             271
                1745              280             301
                1746              273             293


But it is much to be feared that the trade of Philadelphia, and of all
the English colonies, will rather decrease than encrease, in case no
provision is made to prevent it. I shall hereafter plainly shew upon
what foundation this decrease of trade is likely to take place.

The town not only furnishes most of the inhabitants of Pensylvania with
the goods which they want, but numbers of the inhabitants of New Jersey
come every day and carry on a great trade.

The town has two great fairs every year; one in May, and the other in
November, both on the sixteenth days of those two months. But besides
these fairs, there are every week two market days, viz. Wednesday and
Saturday. On those days the country people in Pensylvania and New
Jersey, bring to town a quantity of victuals, and other productions of
the country, and this is a great advantage to the town. It is therefore
to be wished that the like regulation might be made in our Swedish
towns. You are sure to meet with every produce of the season, which the
country affords, on the market-days. But on other days, they are in
vain sought for.

Provisions are always to be got fresh here, and for that reason most of
the inhabitants never buy more at a time, than what will be sufficient
till the next market-day. In summer there is a market almost every day;
for the victuals do not keep well in the great heat. There are two
places in the town where these markets are kept; but that near the
court-house is the principal. It begins about four or five o’clock in
the morning, and ends about nine o’clock in the forenoon.

The town is not enclosed, and has no other custom-house than the great
one for the ships.

The governor of the whole province lives here; and though he is
nominated by the heirs of Pen, yet he cannot take that office without
being confirmed by the king of England.

The quakers of almost all parts of North-America, have their great
assembly here once a year.

In the year 1743, a society for the advancement of the sciences was
erected here. Its objects would have been the curiosities of the three
kingdoms of nature, mathematicks, physick, chemistry, œconomy, and
manufactures. But the war, which ensued immediately, stopped all
designs of this nature, and since that time, nothing has been done
towards establishing any thing of this kind.

The declination of the needle was here observed on the thirtieth of
October 1750, old style, to be five deg. and forty-five min. west. It
was examined by the new meridian, which was drawn at Philadelphia in
the autumn of the same year, and extended a mile in length. By
experience it appears, that this declination lessens about a degree in
twenty years time.

The greatest difference in the rising and falling of the barometer, is
according to the observations made for several years together by Mr.
James Logan, found at 28´´ 59 and 30´´ 78.

Here are three printers, and every week two English, and one German
news-paper is printed.

In the year 1732, on the fifth of September, old style, a little
earthquake was felt here about noon, and at the same time at Boston in
New England, and at Montreal in Canada, which places are above sixty
Swedish miles asunder.

In the month of November of the year 1737, the well known prince from
mount Lebanon, Sheich Sidi came to Philadelphia, on his travels through
most of the English American colonies. And in the same year a second
earthquake was felt about eleven o’clock at night, on the seventh of
December. But it did not continue above half a minute, and yet, it was
felt according to the accounts of the gazettes at the same hour in
Newcastle, New York, New London, Boston, and other towns of New
England. It had therefore likewise reached several miles.

The count Sinzendorf [5] arrived here in the December of the year 1741,
and continued till the next spring. His uncommon behaviour persuaded
many Englishmen of rank, that he was disordered in his head.

I have not been able to find the exact number of the inhabitants of
Philadelphia. In the year 1746, they were reckoned above ten thousand,
and since that time their number is incredibly encreased. Neither can
it be made out from the Bills of mortality, since they are not kept
regularly in all the churches. I shall, however, mention some of those
which appeared either in the gazettes, or in bills printed on purpose.


                             Year.   Dead.

                             1730     227
                             1738     250
                             1739     350
                             1740     290
                             1741     345
                             1742     409
                             1743     425
                             1744     410
                             1745     420
                             1748     672
                             1749     758
                             1750     716


From these bills of mortality it also appears, that the diseases which
are the most fatal, are consumptions, fevers, convulsions, pleuresies,
hæmorrhagies, and dropsies.

The number of those that are born cannot be determined, since in many
churches no order is observed with regard to this affair. The quakers,
who are the most numerous in this town, never baptize their children,
though they take a pretty exact account of all who are born among them.

It is likewise impossible to guess at the number of inhabitants from
the dead, because the town gets such great supplies annually from other
countries. In the summer of the year 1749, near twelve thousand Germans
came over to Philadelphia, many of whom staid in that town. In the same
year the houses in Philadelphia were counted, and found to be two
thousand and seventy six in number.

The town is now quite filled with inhabitants, which in regard to their
country, religion and trade, are very different from each other. You
meet with excellent masters in all trades, and many things are made
here full as well as in England. Yet no manufactures, especially for
making fine cloth are established. Perhaps the reason is, that it can
be got with so little difficulty from England, and that the breed of
sheep which is brought over, degenerates in process of time, and
affords but a coarse wool.

Here is great plenty of provisions, and their prices are very moderate.
There are no examples of an extraordinary dearth.

Every one who acknowledges God to be the Creator, preserver and ruler
of all things, and teaches or undertakes nothing against the state, or
against the common peace, is at liberty to settle, stay, and carry on
his trade here, be his religious principles ever so strange. No one is
here molested on account of the erroneous principles of the doctrine
which he follows, if he does not exceed the above-mentioned bounds. And
he is so well secured by the laws in his person and property, and
enjoys such liberties; that a citizen of Philadelphia may in a manner
be said to live in his house like a king.

On a careful consideration of what I have already said, it will be easy
to conceive how this city should rise so suddenly from nothing, into
such grandeur and perfection, without supposing any powerful monarch’s
contributing to it, either by punishing the wicked, or by giving great
supplies in money. And yet its fine appearance, good regulations,
agreeable situation, natural advantages, trade, riches and power, are
by no means inferior to those of any, even of the most ancient towns in
Europe. It has not been necessary to force people to come and settle
here; on the contrary foreigners of different languages, have left
their country, houses, property and relations, and ventured over wide
and stormy seas, in order to come hither. Other countries, which have
been peopled for a long space of time, complain of the small number of
their inhabitants. But Pensylvania, which was no better than a desart
in the year 1681, and hardly contained five hundred people, now vies
with several kingdoms in Europe, in number of inhabitants. It has
received numbers of people which other countries, to their infinite
loss, have either neglected or expelled.

A wretched old wooden building, on a hill near the river somewhat north
of the Wickako church, belonging to one of the Sons of Sven, of whom,
as before-mentioned, the ground was bought for building Philadelphia
upon, is preserved on purpose, as a memorial of the poor state of that
place, before the town was built on it. Its antiquity gives it a kind
of superiority over all the other buildings in town, though in itself
the worst of all. This hut was inhabited, whilst as yet stags, deers,
elks, and beavers, at broad day light lived in the future streets,
church-yards, and market-places of Philadelphia. The noise of a
spinning wheel was heard in this house, before the manufactures now
established were thought of, or Philadelphia built. But with all these
advantages, this house is ready to fall down, and in a few years to
come, it will be as difficult to find the place where it stood, as it
was unlikely at the time of its erection, that one of the greatest
towns in America, should in a short time stand close up to it.

September the 7th. Mr. Peter Cock, a merchant of this town, assured me
that he had last week himself been a spectator of a snake’s swallowing
a little bird. This bird, which from its cry has the name of Cat bird,
(Muscicapa Carolinensis, Linn.) flew from one branch of a tree to
another, and was making a doleful tune. At the bottom of the tree, but
at a fathom’s distance from the stem, lay one of the great black
snakes, with its head continually upright, pointing towards the bird,
which was always fluttering about, and now and then settling on the
branches. At first it only kept in the topmost branches, but by degrees
it came lower down, and even flew upon the ground, and hopped to the
place where the snake lay, which immediately opened its mouth, caught
the bird and swallowed it; but it had scarce finished its repast before
Mr. Cock came up and killed it. I was afterwards told that this kind of
snakes was frequently observed to pursue little birds in this manner.
It is already well known that the rattle snake does the same.

I walked out to day into the fields in order to get more acquainted
with the plants hereabouts, I found several European and even Swedish
plants among them. But those which are peculiar to America, are much
more numerous.

The Virginian maple grows in plenty on the shores of the Delaware. The
English in this country call it either Buttonwood, or Waterbeech, which
latter name is most usual. The Swedes call it Wattenbok, or Wasbok. It
is Linnæus’s Platanus occidentalis. See Catesby’s Nat. Hist. of
Carolina, vol. 1. p. 56. t. 56. It grows for the greatest part in low
places, but especially on the edge of rivers and brooks. But these
trees are easily transplanted to more dry places, if they be only
filled with good soil; and as their leaves are large and their foliage
thick, they are planted about the houses and in gardens, to afford a
pleasant shade in the hot season, to the enjoyment of which some seats
were placed under them. Some of the Swedes had boxes, pails, and the
like, made of the bark of this tree by the native Americans. They say
that those people whilst they were yet settled here, made little dishes
of this bark for gathering whortleberries. The bark was a line in
thickness. This tree likewise grows in marshes, or in swampy fields,
where ash and red maple commonly grow. They are frequently as tall and
thick, as the best of our fir trees. The seed stays on them till
spring, but in the middle of April the pods open and shed the seeds.
Query, Whether they are not ripe before that time, and consequently
sooner fit for sowing? This American maple is remarkable for its quick
growth, in which it exceeds all other trees. There are such numbers of
them on the low meadows between Philadelphia and the ferry at
Gloucester, on both sides of the road, that in summer time you go as it
were through a shady walk. In that part of Philadelphia which is near
the Swedish church, some great trees of this kind stand on the shore of
the river. In the year 1750, on the 15th. of May I saw the buds still
on them, and in the year 1749 they began to flower on the eighth of
that month. Several trees of this sort are planted at Chelsea near
London, and they now in point of height vie with the tallest oak.

September the 18th. In the morning I went with the Swedish painter, Mr.
Hesselius, to the country seat of Mr. Bartram, which is about four
English miles to the south of Philadelphia, at some distance from the
high road to Maryland, Virginia, and Carolina. I had therefore the
first opportunity here, of getting an exact knowledge of the state of
the country, which was a plain covered with all kinds of trees with
deciduous leaves. The ground was sandy, mixed with clay. But the sand
seemed to be in greater quantity. In some parts the wood was cut down,
and we saw the habitations of some country people, whose corn-fields
and plantations were round their farm-houses. The wood was full of
mulberry-trees, walnut-trees of several kinds, chesnut-trees,
sassafras, and the like. Several sorts of wild vines clasped their
tendrils round, and climbed up to the summits of the highest trees; and
in other places they twined round the enclosures, so thick, that the
latter almost sunk down under their weight. The Persimon, or Diospyros
Virginiana, Linn. sp. pl. p. 1510, grew in the marshy fields, and about
springs. Its little apples looked very well already, but are not fit
for eating, before the frost has affected them, and then they have a
very fine taste. Hesselius gathered some of them, and desired my
servant to taste of the fruits of the land; but this poor credulous
follow, had hardly bit into them, when he felt the qualities they have
before the frost has penetrated them. For they contracted his mouth so
that he could hardly speak, and had a very disagreeable taste. This
disgusted him so much that he was with difficulty persuaded to taste of
it during the whole of our stay in America, notwithstanding it loses
all its acidity and acquires an agreeable flavour in autumn and towards
the beginning of winter. For the fellow always imagined, that though he
should eat them ever so late in the year, they would still retain the
same disagreeable taste.

To satisfy the curiosity of those, who are willing to know, how the
woods look in this country, and whether or no the trees in them are the
same with those found in our forests, I here insert a small catalogue
of those which grow spontaneously in the woods which are nearest to
Philadelphia. But I exclude such shrubs as do not attain any
considerable height. I shall put that tree first in order, which is
most plentiful, and so on with the rest, and therefore trees which I
have found but single, though near the town, will be last.


     1. Quercus alba, the white oak in good ground.
     2. Quercus rubra, or the black oak.
     3. Quercus hispanica, the Spanish oak, a variety of the preceding.
     4. Juglans alba, hiccory, a kind of walnut tree, of which three or
        four varieties are to be met with.
     5. Rubus occidentalis, or American blackberry shrub.
     6. Acer rubrum, the maple tree with red flowers, in swamps.
     7. Rhus glabra, the smooth leaved Sumach, in the woods, on high
        glades, and old corn-fields.
     8. Vitis labrusca and Vulpina, vines of several kinds.
     9. Sambucus canadensis, American Elder tree, along the hedges and
        on glades.
    10. Quercus phellos, the swamp oak, in morasses.
    11. Azalea lutea, the American upright honey-suckle, in the woods
        in dry places.
    12. Cratægus Crus galli, the Virginian Azarole, in woods.
    13. Vaccinium ——, a species of whortleberry shrub.
    14. Quercus prinus, the chesnut oak in good ground.
    15. Cornus florida, the cornelian cherry, in all kinds of ground.
    16. Liriodendron Tulipifera, the tulip tree, in every kind of soil.
    17. Prunus virginiana, the wild cherry tree.
    18. Vaccinium ——, a frutex whortleberry, in good ground.
    19. Prinos verticillatus, the winterberry tree in swamps.
    20. Platanus occidentalis, the water-beech.
    21. Nyssa aquatica, the tupelo tree; on fields and mountains. [6]
    22. Liquidambar styraciflua, sweet gum tree, near springs.
    23. Betula Alnus, alder, a variety of the Swedish; it was here but
        a shrub.
    24. Fagus castanea, the chesnut tree, on corn-fields, pastures, and
        in little woods.
    25. Juglans nigra, the black walnut tree, in the same place with
    the preceding tree.
    26. Rhus radicans, the twining sumach, climbed along the trees.
    27. Acer Negundo, the ash-leaved maple, in morasses and swampy
        places.
    28. Primus domestica, the wild plumb tree.
    29. Ulmus Americana, the white elm.
    30. Prunus spinosa, sloe shrub, in low places.
    31. Laurus sassafras, the sassafras tree, in a loose soil mixed
        with sand.
    32. Ribes nigrum, the currant tree, grew in low places and in
        marshes.
    33. Fraxinus excelsior, the ash tree in low places.
    34. Smilax laurifolia, the rough bind weed with the bay leaf, in
        woods and on pales or enclosures.
    35. Kalmia latifolia, the American dwarf laurel, on the northern
        side of mountains.
    36. Morus rubra, the mulberry tree on fields, hills and near the
        houses.
    37. Rhus vernix, the poisonous Sumach, in wet places.
    38. Quercus rubra, the red oak, but a peculiar variety.
    39. Hamamelis virginica, the witch hazel.
    40. Diospyros virginiana, the persimon.
    41. Pyrus coronaria, the anchor tree.
    42. Juniperus virginiana, the red juniper, in a dry poor soil.
    43. Laurus æstivalis, spice-wood in a wet soil.
    44. Carpinus ostrya, a species of horn beam in a good soil.
    45. Carpinus betulus, a horn beam, in the same kind of soil with
        the former.
    46. Fagus sylvatica, the beech, likewise in good soil.
    47. Juglans ——, a species of walnut tree on hills near rivers, [7]
        called by the Swedes Butternustræ.
    48. Pinus Americana, Pensylvanian fir tree; on the north side of
        mountains, and in vallies. [8]
    49. Betula lenta, a species of birch, on the banks of rivers.
    50. Cephalantus occidentalis, button wood, in wet places.
    51. Pinus tæda, the New Jersey fir tree, on dry sandy heaths.
    52. Cercis canadensis, the sallad tree, in a good soil.
    53. Robinia pseudacacia, the locust tree, on the corn-fields.
    54. Magnolia glauca, the laurel-leaved tulip tree, in marshy soil.
    55. Tilia Americana, the lime tree, in a good soil.
    56. Gleditsia triacanthos, the honey locust tree, or three thorned
        acacia, in the same soil.
    57. Celtis occidentalis, the nettle tree, in the fields.
    58. Annona muricata, the custard apple in a fruitful soil.


We visited several Swedes, who were settled here, and were at present
in very good circumstances. One of them was called Andrew Rambo; he had
a fine house built of stone, two stories high, and a great orchard near
it. We were every where well received, and stayed over night with the
above-mentioned countryman. We saw no other marks of autumn, than that
several fruits of this season were already ripe. For besides this all
the trees were yet as green, and the ground still as much covered with
flowers, as in our summer. Thousands of frogs croaked all the night
long in the marshes and brooks. The locusts and grasshoppers made
likewise such a great noise, that it was hardly possible for one person
to understand another. The trees too, were full of all sorts of birds,
which by the variety of their fine plumage, delighted the eye, while
the infinite variety of their tunes were continually re-echoed.

The orchards, along which we passed to-day, were only enclosed by
hurdles. But they contained all kinds of fine fruit. We wondered at
first very much when our leader leaped over the hedge into the
orchards, and gathered some agreeable fruit for us. But our
astonishment was still greater, when we saw that the people in the
garden were so little concerned at it, as not even to look at us. But
our companion told us, that the people here were not so exact in regard
to a few fruits, as they are in other countries where the soil is not
so fruitful in them. We afterwards found very frequently that the
country people in Sweden and Finland guarded their turneps more
carefully, than the people here do the most exquisite fruits.

September the 19th. As I walked this morning into the fields, I
observed that a copious dew was fallen; for the grass was as wet as if
it had rained. The leaves of the plants and trees, had contracted so
much moisture, that the drops ran down. I found on this occasion that
the dew was not only on the superior, but likewise on the inferior side
of the leaves. I therefore carefully considered many leaves both of
trees and of other plants; both of those which are more above, and of
those which are nearer to the ground. But I found in all of them, that
both sides of the leaves were equally bedewed, except those of the
Verbascum Thapsus, or great Mullein, which though their superior side
was pretty well covered with the dew, yet their inferior had but a
little.

Every countryman, even a common peasant, has commonly an orchard near
his house, in which all sorts of fruit, such as peaches, apples, pears,
cherries, and others, are in plenty. The peaches were now almost ripe.
They are rare in Europe, particularly in Sweden, for in that country
hardly any people besides the rich taste them. But here every
countryman had an orchard full of peach trees, which were covered with
such quantities of fruit, that we could scarcely walk in the orchard,
without treading upon those peaches which were fallen off; many of
which were always left on the ground, and only part of them was sold in
town, and the rest was consumed by the family and strangers; for every
one that passed by, was at liberty to go into the orchard, and to
gather as many of them as he wanted. Nay, this fine fruit was
frequently given to the swine.

This fruit is however sometimes kept for winter use, and for this
purpose they are prepared in the following manner. The fruit is cut
into four parts, the stone thrown away, and the fruit put upon a
thread, on which they are exposed to the sunshine in the open air, till
they are sufficiently dry. They are then put into a vessel for winter.
But this manner of drying them is not very good, because the rain of
this season very easily spoils and putrifies them, whilst they hang in
the open air. For this reason a different method is followed by others,
which is by far the most eligible. The peaches are as before cut into
four parts, are then either put upon a thread, or laid upon a board,
and so hung up in the air when the sun shines. Being dried in some
measure, or having lost their juice by this means, they are put into an
oven, out of which the bread has but just been taken, and are left in
it for a while. But they are soon taken out and brought into the fresh
air; and after that they are again put into the oven, and this is
repeated several times till they are as dry as they ought to be. For if
they were dried up at once in the oven, they would shrivel up too much,
and lose part of their flavour. They are then put up and kept for the
winter. They are either baked into tarts and pyes, or boiled and
prepared as dried apples and pears are in Sweden. Several people here
dry and preserve their apples in the same manner as their peaches.

The peach trees, have, as I am told, been first planted here by the
Europeans. But at present they succeed very well, and require even less
care, than our apple and pear trees.

The orchards have seldom other fruit than apples and peaches. Pear
trees are scarce in this province, and those that had any of them, had
planted them in their orchards. They likewise have cherry trees in the
orchards, but commonly on the sides of them towards the house, or along
the enclosures. Mulberry trees are planted on some hillocks near the
house, and sometimes even in the court yards of the house. The black
walnut trees, or Juglans nigra, grow partly on hills, and in fields
near the farm-houses, and partly along the enclosures; but most
commonly in the forests. No other trees of this kind, are made use of
here. The chesnuts are left in the fields; here and there is one in a
dry field or in a wood.

The Hibiscus esculentus, or Okra, [9] is a plant which grows wild in
the West Indies, but is planted in the gardens here. The fruit, which
is a long pod, is cut whilst it is green, and boiled in soups, which
thereby become as thick as pulse. This dish is reckoned a dainty by
some people, and especially by the negroes.

Capsicum annuum, or Guinea pepper is likewise planted in gardens. When
the fruit is ripe it is almost entirely red, it is put to a roasted or
boiled piece of meat, a little of it being strewed upon it, or mixed
with the broth. Besides this, cucumbers are pickled with it. Or the
pods are pounded whilst they are yet tender, and being mixed with salt
are preserved in a bottle; and this spice is strewed over roasted or
boiled meat, or fried fish, and gives them a very fine taste. But the
fruit by itself is as biting as common pepper.

This country contains many species of the plant, which Dr. Linnæus
calls Rhus, and the most common is the Rhus foliis pinnatis serratis
lanceolates retrinque nudis, or the Rhus glabra. The English call this
plant Sumach. But the Swedes here, have no particular name for it, and
therefore make use of the English name. Its berries or fruits are red.
They are made use of for dying, and afford a colour like their own.
This tree is like a weed in this country, for if a corn-field is left
uncultivated for some few years together, it grows on it in plenty,
since the berries are spread every where by the birds. And when the
ground is to be ploughed the roots stop the plough very much. The fruit
stays on the shrub during the whole winter. But the leaves drop very
early in autumn, after they are turned reddish, like those of our
Swedish mountain ash. The branches boiled with the berries afford a
black ink like tincture. The boys eat the berries, there being no
danger of falling sick after the repast; but they are very sour. They
seldom grow above three yards high. On cutting the stem, it appears
that it contains nothing but pith. I have cut several in this manner,
and found that some were ten years old; but that most of them were
above one year old. When the cut is made, a yellow juice comes out
between the bark and the wood. One or two of the most outward circles
are white, but the innermost are of a yellowish green. It is easy to
distinguish them one from another. They contain a very plentiful pith,
the diameter of which is frequently half an inch, and sometimes more.
It is brown, and so loose that it is easily pushed out by a little
stick, in the same manner as the pith of the elder tree, raspberry and
blackberry bushes. This sumach grows near the enclosures, round the
corn-fields, but especially on fallow ground. The wood seemed to burn
well, and made no great crackling in the fire.

September the 20th. In the morning we walked in the fields and woods
near the town, partly for gathering seeds, and partly for gathering
plants for my herbal, which was our principal occupation; and in the
autumn of this year, we sent part of our collection to England and
Sweden.

A species of Rhus, which was frequent in the marshes here was called
the poison tree by both English and Swedes. Some of the former gave it
the name of swamp-sumach, and my country-men gave it the same name. Dr.
Linnæus in his botanical works calls it Rhus Vernix. Sp. pl. 1. 380.
Flora Virgin. 45. An incision being made into the tree, a whitish
yellow juice, which has a nauseous smell, comes out between the bark
and the wood. This tree is not known for its good qualities, but
greatly so for the effect of its poison, which though it is noxious to
some people, yet does not in the least affect others. And therefore one
person can handle the tree as he pleases, cut it, peel off its bark,
rub it, or the wood upon his hands, smell at it, spread the juice upon
his skin, and make more experiments, with no inconvenience to himself;
another person on the contrary dares not meddle with the tree, while
its wood is fresh, nor can he venture to touch a hand which has handled
it, nor even to expose himself to the smoak of a fire which is made
with this wood, without soon feeling its bad effects; for the face, the
hands, and frequently the whole body swells excessively, and is
affected with a very accute pain. Sometimes bladders or blisters arise
in great plenty, and make the sick person look as if he was infected by
a leprosy. In some people the external thin skin, or cuticle, peels of
in a few days, as is the case when a person has scalded or burnt any
part of his body. Nay, the nature of some persons will not even allow
them to approach the place where the tree grows, or to expose
themselves to the wind, when it carries the effluvia or exhalations of
this tree with it, without letting them feel the inconvenience of the
swelling, which I have just now described. Their eyes are sometimes
shut up for one, or two and more days together by the swelling. I know
two brothers, one of whom could without danger handle this tree in what
manner he pleased, whereas the other could not come near it without
swelling. A person sometimes does not know that he has touched this
poisonous plant, or that he has been near it, before his face and hands
shews it by their swelling. I have known old people who were more
afraid of this tree than of a viper; and I was acquainted with a person
who merely by the noxious exhalations of it was swelled to such a
degree, that he was as stiff as a log of wood, and could only be turned
about in sheets.

On relating in the winter of the year 1750, the poisonous qualities of
the swamp sumach to my Yungstrœm, who attended me on my travels, he
only laughed, and looked upon the whole as a fable, in which opinion he
was confirmed by his having often handled the tree the autumn before,
cut many branches of it, which he had carried for a good while in his
hand in order to preserve its seeds, and put many into the herbals, and
all this, without feeling the least inconvenience. He would therefore,
being a kind of philosopher in his own way, take nothing for granted of
which he had no sufficient proofs, especially as he had his own
experience in the summer of the year 1749, to support the contrary
opinion. But in the next summer his system of philosophy was
overturned. For his hands swelled and he felt a violent pain, and
itching in his eyes as soon as he touched the tree, and this
inconvenience not only attended him when he meddled with this kind of
sumach, but even when he had any thing to do with the Rhus radicans, or
that species of sumach which climbs along the trees, and is not by far
so poisonous as the former. By this adventure he was so convinced of
the power of the poison tree, that I could not easily persuade him to
gather more seeds of it for me. But he not only felt the noxious
effects of it in summer when he was very hot, but even in winter when
both he and the wood were cold. Hence it appears that though a person
be secured against the power of this poison for some time, yet that in
length of time he may be affected with it as well, as people of a
weaker constitution.

I have likewise tried experiments of every kind with the poison tree on
myself. I have spread its juice upon my hands, cut and broke its
branches, peeled off its bark, and rubbed my hands with it, smelt at
it, carried pieces of it in my bare hands, and repeated all this
frequently, without feeling the baneful effects so commonly annexed to
it; but I however once experienced that the poison of the sumach was
not entirely without effect upon me. On a hot day in summer, as I was
in some degree of perspiration, I cut a branch of the tree, and carried
it in my hand for about half an hour together, and smelt at it now and
then. I felt no effects from it, till in the evening. But next morning
I awoke with a violent itching of my eye-lids, and the parts
thereabouts, and this was so painful, that I could hardly keep my hands
from it. It ceased after I had washed my eyes for a while, with very
cold water. But my eye-lids were very stiff all that day. At night the
itching returned, and in the morning as I awoke, I felt it as ill as
the morning before, and I used the same remedy against it. However it
continued almost for a whole week together, and my eyes were very red,
and my eye-lids were with difficulty moved, during all that time. My
pain ceased entirely afterwards. About the same time, I had spread the
juice of the tree very thick upon my hand. Three days after they
occasioned blisters, which soon went off without affecting me much. I
have not experienced any thing more of the effects of this plant, nor
had I any desire so to do. However I found that it could not exert its
power upon me, when I was not perspiring.

I have never heard that the poison of this Sumach has been mortal; but
the pain ceases after a few days duration. The natives formerly made
their flutes of this tree, because it has a great deal of pith. Some
people assured me, that a person suffering from its noisome
exhalations, would easily recover by spreading a mixture of the wood,
burnt to charcoal, and hog’s lard, upon the swelled parts. Some
asserted that they had really tried this remedy. In some places this
tree is rooted out on purpose, that its poison may not affect the
workmen.

I received to day, several curiosities belonging to the mineral
kingdom, which were collected in the country. The following were those
which were most worth attention. The first was a white, and quite
transparent crystal. [10] Many of this kind are found in Pensylvania,
in several kinds of stone, especially in a pale-grey limestone. The
pieces are of the thickness and length of the little finger, and
commonly as transparent as possible. But I have likewise got crystals
here, of the length of a foot, and of the thickness of a middle-sized
man’s leg. They were not so transparent as the former.

The cubic Pyrites of Bishop Browallius, [11] was of a very regular
texture. But its cubes were different in size, for in some of the
cubes, the planes of the sides only amounted to a quarter of an inch,
but in the biggest cubes, they were full two inches. Some were
exceedingly glittering, so that it was very easy to be perceived that
they consisted of sulphureous pyrites. But in some one or two sides
only, glittered so well, and the others were dark-brown. Yet most of
these marcasites had this same colour on all the sides. On breaking
them they shewed the pure pyrites. They are found near Lancaster in
this province, and sometimes lie quite above the ground; but commonly
they are found at the depth of eight feet or more from the surface of
the ground, on digging wells and the like. Mr. Hesselius had several
pieces of this kind of stone, which he made use of in his work. He
first burnt them, then pounded or ground them to a powder, and at last
rubbed them still finer in the usual way, and this afforded him a fine
reddish-brown colour.

Few black pebbles are found in this province, which on the other hand
yields many kinds of marble, especially a white one, with pale-grey
bluish spots, which is found in a quarry at the distance of a few
English miles from Philadelphia, and is very good for working, though
it is not one of the finest kind of marbles. They make many tombstones
and tables, enchase chimneys and doors, floors of marble flags in the
rooms, and the like of this kind of marble. A quantity of this
commodity is shipped to different parts of America.

Muscovy glass, [12] is found in many places hereabouts, and some pieces
of it are pretty large, and as fine as those which are brought from
Russia. I have seen some of them, which were a foot and more in length.
And I have several in my collection that are nearly nine inches square.
The Swedes on their first arrival here made their windows of this
native glass.

A pale grey fine limestone, [13] of a compact texture, lies in many
places hereabouts, and affords a fine lime. Some pieces of it are so
full of fine transparent crystals, that almost half of the stone
consists of nothing else. But besides this limestone, they make lime
near the sea-shore, from oyster shells, and bring it to town in winter,
which is said to be worse for masonry, but better for white-washing,
than that which is got from the limestone.

Coals have not yet been found in Pensylvania; but people pretend to
have seen them higher up in the country among the natives. Many people
however agree that they are met with in great quantity more to the
north, near Cape Breton. [14]

The ladies make wine from some of the fruits of the land. They
principally take white and red currants for that purpose, since the
shrubs of this kind are very plentiful in the gardens, and succeed very
well. An old sailor who had frequently been in New-foundland, told me
that red currants grew wild in that country in great quantity. They
likewise make a wine of strawberries, which grow in great plenty in the
woods, but are sourer than the Swedish ones. The American blackberries,
or Rubus occidentalis, are likewise made use of for this purpose, for
they grow every where about the fields, almost as abundantly as
thistles in Sweden, and have a very agreeable taste. In Maryland a wine
is made of the wild grapes, which grow in the woods of that province.
Raspberries and cherries which are planted on purpose, and taken great
care of, likewise afford a very fine wine. It is unnecessary to give an
account of the manner of making the currant wine, for in Sweden this
art is in higher perfection than in North America.

September the 21st. The common Privet, or Ligustrum vulgare, Linn.
grows among the bushes in thickets and woods. But I cannot determine
whether it belongs to the indigenous plants, or to those which the
English have introduced, the fruits of which the birds may have
dispersed every where. The enclosures and pales are generally made here
of wooden planks and posts. But a few, good œconomists, having already
thought of sparing the woods for future times, have begun to plant
quick hedges round their fields; and to this purpose they take the
above-mentioned privet, which they plant in a little bank, which is
thrown up for it. The soil every where hereabouts is a clay mixed with
sand, and of course very loose. The privet hedges however, are only
adapted to the tameness of the cattle and other animals here; for the
hogs all have a triangular yoke about their necks, and the other cattle
are not very unruly. But in such places where the cattle break through
the enclosures, hedges of this kind would make but a poor defence. The
people who live in the neighbourhood of Philadelphia, are obliged to
keep their hogs enclosed.

In the afternoon I rode with Mr. Peter Cock, who was a merchant, born
at Karlscron in Sweden, to his country seat, about nine miles from the
town, to the north-west.

The country on both sides of the road was covered with a great forest.
The trees were all with annual leaves, and I did not see a single fir
or pine. Most of the trees were different sorts of oak. But we likewise
saw chesnut trees, walnut trees, locust trees, apple trees, hiccory,
blackberry bushes, and the like. The ground ceased to be so even as it
was before, and began to look more like the English ground, diversified
with hills and vallies. We found neither mountains nor great stones,
and the wood was so much thinned, and the ground so uniformly even,
that we could see a great way between the trees, under which we rode
without any inconvenience; for there were no bushes to stop us. In some
places where the soil was thrown up, we saw some little stones of that
kind of which the houses here are so generally built. I intend to
describe them in the sequel.

As we went on in the wood, we continually saw at moderate distances
little fields, which had been cleared of the wood. Each of these was a
farm. These farms were commonly very pretty, and a walk of trees
frequently led from them to the high-road. The houses were all built of
brick, or of the stone which is here every where to be met with. Every
countryman, even though he were the poorest peasant, had an orchard
with apples, peaches, chesnuts, walnuts, cherries, quinces, and such
fruits, and sometimes we saw the vines climbing along them. The vallies
were frequently provided with little brooks which contained a crystal
stream. The corn on the sides of the road, was almost all mown, and no
other grain besides maize and buckwheat was standing. The former was to
be met with near each farm, in greater or lesser quantities; it grew
very well and to a great length, the stalks being from six to ten foot
high and covered with fine green leaves. Buckwheat likewise was not
very uncommon, and in some places the people were beginning to reap it.
I intend in the sequel to be more particular about the qualities and
use of these kinds of corn.

After a ride of six English miles, we came to Germantown; this town has
only one street, but is near two English miles long. It is for the
greatest part inhabited by Germans, who from time to time come from
their country to North America, and settle here, because they enjoy
such privileges, as they are not possessed of any where else. Most of
the inhabitants are tradesmen, and make almost every thing in such
quantity and perfection, that in a short time this province will want
very little from England, its mother country. Most of the houses were
built of the stone which is mixed with glimmer, and found every where
towards Philadelphia, but is more scarce further on. Several houses
however were made of brick. They were commonly two stories high, and
sometimes higher. The roofs consisted of shingles of the white cedar
wood. Their shape resembled that of the roofs in Sweden, but the angles
they formed at the top were either obtuse, right angled, or acute,
according as the slopes were steep or easy. They sometimes formed
either the half of an octogon, or the half of a dodecagon.

Many of the roofs were made in such a manner, that they could be walked
upon, having a balustrade round them. Many of the upper stories had
balconies before them, from whence the people had a prospect into the
street. The windows, even those in the third story, had shutters. Each
house had a fine garden. The town had three churches, one for the
lutherans, another for the reformed protestants, and the third for the
quakers. The inhabitants were so numerous, that the street was always
full. The baptists have likewise a meeting-house.

September the 22d. After I had been at church, I employed the remainder
of the day in conversing with the most considerable people in town, who
had lived here for a long while, and I enquired into the curiosities
hereabouts.

Mr. Cock had a fine spring near his country seat; it came from a sandy
hill, and afforded water enough constantly to fill a little brook. Just
above this spring Mr. Cock had erected a building from those
above-mentioned glittering stones, into which were put many jugs, and
other earthen vessels full of milk; for it kept very well in cold water
during the great heat with which the summer is attended here.

I afterwards met with many houses which were situated like this on
springs, and therefore were destined to keep the meat and milk fresh.

Almost all the enclosures round the corn-fields and meadows hereabouts,
were made of planks fastened in a horizontal direction. I only
perceived a hedge of privet in one single place. The enclosures were
not made like ours, for the people here take posts from four to six
feet in height, and make two or three holes into them, so that there
was a distance of two feet and above between them. Such a post does the
same service as two, and sometimes three poles are scarce sufficient.
The posts were fastened in the ground, at two or three fathoms distance
from each other, and the holes in them kept up the planks, which were
nine inches, and sometimes a foot broad, and lay above each other from
one post to the next. Such an enclosure therefore looked at a distance
like the hurdles in which we enclose the sheep at night in Sweden. They
were really no closer than hurdles, being only destined to keep out the
greater animals, such as cows and horses. The hogs are kept near the
farm-houses every where about Philadelphia, and therefore this
enclosure does not need to be made closer on their account. Chesnut
trees were commonly made use of for this purpose, because this wood
keeps longest against putrefaction, and an enclosure made of it can
stand for thirty years together. But where no chesnut wood was to be
got, the white, and likewise the black oaks were taken for that
purpose. Of all kinds of wood, that of the red cedar holds out the
longest. The greatest quantity of it is brought up here; for near
Philadelphia it is not plentiful enough, to be made use of for
enclosures; however there are many enclosures near the town made of
this wood.

The best wood for fuel in every body’s opinion is the hiccory, or a
species of walnut; for it heats well; but is not good for enclosures,
since it cannot well withstand putrefaction when it is in the open air.
The white and black oaks are next in goodness for fuel. The woods with
which Philadelphia is surrounded, would lead one to conclude, that fuel
must be cheap there. But it is far from being so, because the great and
high forest near the town is the property of some people of quality and
fortune, who do not regard the money which they could make of them.
They do not sell so much as they require for their own use, and much
less would they sell it to others. But they leave the trees for times
to come, expecting that wood will become much more scarce. However they
sell it to joiners, coach-makers, and other artists, who pay
exorbitantly for it. For a quantity of hiccory of eight foot in length,
and four in depth, and the pieces being likewise four foot long, they
paid at present eighteen shillings of Pensylvanian currency. But the
same quantity of oak only came to twelve shillings. The people who came
at present to sell wood in the market were peasants, who lived at a
great distance from the town. Every body complained that fuel in the
space of a few years, was risen in price to many times as much again as
it had been, and to account for this, the following reasons were given:
the town is encreased to such a degree, as to be four or six times
bigger, and more populous than what some old people have known it to
be, when they were young. Many brick-kilns have been made hereabouts,
which require a great quantity of wood. The country is likewise more
cultivated than it used to be, and consequently great woods have been
cut down for that purpose; and the farms built in those places likewise
consume a quantity of wood. Lastly, they melt iron out of the ore, in
several places about the town, and this work always goes on without
interruption. For these reasons it is concluded in future times
Philadelphia will be obliged to pay a great price for wood.

The wine of blackberries, which has a very fine taste, is made in the
following manner. The juice of the blackberries is pressed out, and put
into a vessel; with half a gallon of this juice, an equal quantity of
water is well mixed. Three pounds of brown sugar are added to this
mixture, which must then stand for a while, and after that, it is fit
for use. Cherry wine is made in the same manner, but care must be taken
that when the juice is pressed out, the stones be not crushed, for they
give the wine a bad taste.

They make brandy from peaches here, after the following method. The
fruit is cut asunder, and the stones are taken out. The pieces of fruit
are then put into a vessel, where they are left for three weeks or a
month, till they are quite putrid. They are then put into the
distilling vessel, and the brandy is made and afterwards distilled over
again. This brandy is not good for people who have a more refined
taste, but it is only for the common kind of people, such as workmen
and the like.

Apples yield a brandy, when prepared in the same manner as the peaches.
But for this purpose those apples are chiefly taken, which fall from
the tree before they are ripe.

The American Night-shade, or Phytolacca decandra, Linn. S. N. grows
abundantly near the farms, on the highroad in hedges and bushes, and in
several places in the fields. Whenever I came to any of these places I
was sure of finding this plant in great abundance. Most of them had red
berries, which grew in bunches, and looked very tempting, though they
were not at all fit for eating. Some of these plants were yet in
flower. In some places, such as in the hedges, and near the houses,
they sometimes grow two fathom high. But in the fields were always low;
yet I could no where perceive that the cattle had eaten of it. A German
of this place who was a confectioner told me, that the dyers gathered
the roots of this plant and made a fine red dye of them.

Here are several species of Squirrels. The ground Squirrels, or Sciurus
striatus, Linn. S. N. are commonly kept in cages, because they are very
pretty: but they cannot he entirely tamed. The greater Squirrels, or
Sciurus cinereus, Linn. S. N. frequently do a great deal of mischief in
the plantations, but particularly destroy the maize. For they climb up
the stalks, cut the ears in pieces and eat only the loose and sweet
kernel which lies quite in the inside. They sometimes come by hundreds
upon a maize-field, and then destroy the whole crop of a countryman in
one night. In Maryland therefore every one is obliged annually to bring
four squirrels, and their heads are given to the surveyor, to prevent
deceit. In other provinces every body that kills squirrels, received
twopence a piece for them from the public, on delivering the heads.
Their flesh is eaten and reckoned a dainty. The skins are sold, but are
not much esteemed. Squirrels are the chief food of the rattle-snake and
other snakes, and it was a common fancy with the people hereabouts,
that when the rattle snake lay on the ground, and fixed its eyes upon a
squirrel, the latter would be as it were fascinated, and that though it
were on the uppermost branches of a tree, yet it would come down by
degrees, till it leaped into the snake’s mouth. The snake then licks
the little animal several times, and makes it wet all over with its
spittle, that it may go down the throat easier. It then swallows the
whole squirrel at once. When the snake has made such a good meal, it
lies down to rest without any concern.

The quadruped, which Dr. Linnæus in the memoirs of the Royal Academy of
Sciences, has described by the name of Ursus cauda elongata, and which
he calls Ursus Lotor, in his Systema Naturæ, is here called Raccoon. It
is found very frequently, and destroys many chickens. It is hunted by
dogs, and when it runs upon a tree to save itself, a man climbs upon
the tree after it, and shakes it down to the ground, where the dogs
kill it. The flesh is eaten, and is reputed to taste well. The bone of
its male parts is made use of for a tobacco-stopper. The hatters
purchase their skins, and make hats out of the hair, which are next in
goodness to beavers. The tail is worn round the neck in winter, and
therefore is likewise valuable. The Raccoon is frequently the food of
snakes.

Some Englishmen asserted that near the river Potomack in Virginia, a
great quantity of oyster shells were to be met with, and that they
themselves had seen whole mountains of them. The place where they are
found is said to be about two English miles distant from the sea-shore.
The proprietor of that ground burns lime out of them. This stratum of
oyster-shells is two fathom and more deep. Such quantities of shells
have likewise been found in other places, especially in New York, on
digging in the ground; and in one place, at the distance of some
English miles from the sea, avast quantity of oyster-shells, and of
other shells was found. Some people conjectured that the natives had
formerly lived in that place, and had left the shells of the oysters
which they had consumed, in such great heaps. But others could not
conceive how it happened that they were thrown in such immense
quantities all into one place.

Every one is of opinion that the American savages were a very
good-natured people, if they were not attacked. No body is so strict in
keeping his word as a savage. If any one of their allies come to visit
them, they shew him more kindness, and greater endeavours to serve him,
than he could have expected from his own countrymen. Mr. Cock gave me
the following relation, as a proof of their integrity. About two years
ago, an English merchant travelling amongst the savages, in order to
sell them necessaries, and to buy other goods, was secretly killed,
without the murderer’s being found out. But about a year after, the
savages found out the guilty person amongst themselves. They
immediately took him up, bound his hands on his back, and thus sent him
with a guard to the governor at Philadelphia, and sent him word, that
they could no longer acknowledge this wretch (who had been so wicked
towards an Englishman) as their countryman, and therefore would have
nothing more to do with him, and that they delivered him up to the
governor, to be punished for his villainy as the laws of England
direct. This Indian was afterwards hanged at Philadelphia.

Their good natural parts are proved by the following account, which
many people have given me as a true one. When they send their
ambassadors to the English colonies, in order to settle things of
consequence with the governor, they sit down on the ground, as soon as
they come to his audience, and hear with great attention the governor’s
demands which they are to make an answer to. His demands are sometimes
many. Yet they have only a stick in their hand, and make their marks on
it with a knife, without writing any thing else down. But when they
return the next day to give in their resolutions, they answer all the
governor’s articles in the same order, in which he delivered them,
without leaving one out, or changing the order, and give such accurate
answers, as if they had an account of them at full length in writing.

Mr. Sleidorn related another story, which gave me great pleasure. He
said he had been at New York, and had found a venerable old American
savage amongst several others in an inn. This old man began to talk
with Sleidorn as soon as the liquor was getting the better of his head,
and boasted that he could write and read in English. Sleidorn therefore
desired leave to ask a question, which the old man readily granted.
Sleidorn then asked him, whether he knew who was first circumcised? and
the old man immediately answered, Father Abraham; but at the same time
asked leave to propose a question in his turn, which Sleidorn granted;
the old man then said, who was the first quaker? Sleidorn said it was
uncertain, that some took one person for it, and some another; but the
cunning old fellow told him, you are mistaken, sir; Mordecai was the
first quaker, for he would not take off his hat to Haman. Many of the
savages, who are yet heathens, are said to have some obscure notion of
the deluge. But I am convinced from my own experience, that they are
not at all acquainted with it.

I met with people here who maintained that giants had formerly lived in
these parts, and the following particulars confirmed them in this
opinion. A few years ago some people digging in the ground, met with a
grave which contained human bones of an astonishing size. The Tibia is
said to have been fourteen feet long, and the os femoris to have
measured as much. The teeth are likewise said to have been of a size
proportioned to the rest, But more bones of this kind have not yet been
found. Persons skilled in anatomy, who have seen these bones, have
declared that they were human bones. One of the teeth has been sent to
Hamburgh, to a person who collected natural curiosities. Among the
savages, in the neighbourhood of the place where the bones were found,
there is an account handed down through many generations from fathers
to children, that in this neighbourhood, on the banks of a river, there
lived a very tall and strong man, in ancient times, who carried the
people over the river on his back, and waded in the water, though it
was very deep. Every body to whom he did this service gave him some
maize, some skins of animals, or the like. In fine he got his
livelyhood by this means, and was as it were the ferryman of those who
wanted to pass the river.

The soil here consists for the greatest part of sand, which is more or
less mixed with clay. Both the sand and the clay, are of the colour of
pale bricks. To judge by appearance the ground was none of the best;
and this conjecture was verified by the inhabitants of the country.
When a corn-field has been obliged to bear the same kind of corn for
three years together, it does not after that produce any thing at all
if it be not well manured, or fallowed for some years. Manure is very
difficult to be got, and therefore people rather leave the field
uncultivated. In that interval it is covered with all sorts of plants
and trees; and the countryman in the mean while, cultivates a piece of
ground which has till then been fallow, or he chuses a part of the
ground which has never been ploughed before, and he can in both cases
be pretty sure of a plentiful crop. This method can here be used with
great convenience. For the soil is loose, so that it can easily be
ploughed, and every countryman has commonly a great deal of land for
his property. The cattle here are neither housed in winter, nor tended
in the fields, and for this reason they cannot gather a sufficient
quantity of dung.

All the cattle has been originally brought over from Europe. The
natives have never had any, and at present few of them care to get any.
But the cattle degenerates by degrees here, and becomes smaller. For
the cows, horses, sheep, and hogs, are all larger in England, though
those which are brought over are of that breed. But the first
generation decreases a little, and the third and fourth is of the same
size with the cattle already common here. The climate, the soil, and
the food, altogether contribute their share towards producing this
change.

It is remarkable that the inhabitants of the country, commonly sooner
acquire understanding, but likewise grow sooner old than the people in
Europe. It is nothing uncommon to see little children, giving sprightly
and ready answers to questions that are proposed to them, so that they
seem to have as much understanding as old men. But they do not attain
to such an age as the Europeans, and it is almost an unheard of thing,
that a person born in this country, should live to be eighty or ninety
years of age. But I only speak of the Europeans that settled here. For
the savages, or first inhabitants, frequently attained a great age,
though at present such examples are uncommon, which is chiefly
attributed to the great use of brandy, which the savages have learnt of
the Europeans. Those who are born in Europe attain a greater age here,
than those who are born here, of European parents. In the last war, it
plainly appeared that these new Americans were by far less hardy than
the Europeans in expeditions, sieges, and long sea voyages, and died in
numbers. It is very difficult for them to use themselves to a climate
different from their own. The women cease bearing children sooner than
in Europe. They seldom or never have children, after they are forty or
forty-five years old, and some leave off in the thirtieth year of their
age. I enquired into the causes of this, but no one could give me a
good one. Some said it was owing to the affluence in which the people
live here. Some ascribed it to the inconstancy and changeableness of
the weather, and believed that there hardly was a country on earth in
which the weather changes so often in a day, as it does here. For if it
were ever so hot, one could not be certain whether in twenty-four hours
there would not be a piercing cold. Nay, sometimes the weather will
change five or six times a day.

The trees in this country have the same qualities as its inhabitants.
For the ships which are built of American wood, are by no means equal
in point of strength, to those which are built in Europe. This is what
nobody attempts to contradict. When a ship which is built here, has
served eight or twelve years it is worth little; and if one is to be
met with, which has been in use longer and is yet serviceable, it is
reckoned very astonishing. It is difficult to find out the causes from
whence this happens. Some lay the fault to the badness of the wood:
others condemn the method of building the ships, which is to make them
of trees which are yet green, and have had no time to dry. I believe
both causes are joined. For I found oak, which at the utmost had been
cut down about twelve years, and was covered by a hard bark. But upon
taking off this bark, the wood below it was almost entirely rotten, and
like flour, so that I could rub it into powder between my fingers. How
much longer will not our European oak stand before it moulders?

At night we returned to Philadelphia.

September the 23d. There are no Hares in this country, but some
animals, which are a medium between our Hares and Rabbets, and make a
great devastation whenever they get into fields of cabbage and turneps.

Many people have not been able to find out why the North American
plants which are carried to Europe and planted there, for the greatest
part flower so late, and do not get ripe fruit before the frost
overtakes them, although it appears from several accounts of travels,
that the winters in Pensylvania, and more so those in New York, New
England, and Canada, are full as severe as our Swedish winters, and
therefore are much severer than those which are felt in England.
Several men of judgment charged me for this reason to examine and
enquire into this phœnomenon with all possible care. But I shall
instead of an answer, rather give a few remarks which I made upon the
climate and upon the plants of North America, and leave my readers at
liberty to draw the conclusions themselves.

1. It is true, that the winters in Pensylvania, and much more those in
the more northern provinces, are frequently as severe as our Swedish
winters, and much colder than the English ones, or those of the
southern parts of Europe. For I found at Philadelphia, which is above
twenty deg. more southerly than several provinces in Sweden, that the
thermometer of professor Celsius, fell twenty-four deg. below the
freezing point in winter. Yet I was assured that the winters I spent
here, were none of the coldest, but only common ones, which I could
likewise conclude from the Delaware’s not being frozen strong enough to
bear a carriage at Philadelphia during my stay, though this often
happens. On considering the breadth of the river which I have already
mentioned in my description of Philadelphia, and the difference between
high and low water, which is eight English feet; it will pretty plainly
appear that a very intense frost is required to cover the Delaware with
such thick ice.

2. But it is likewise true, that though the winters are severe here,
yet they are commonly of no long duration, and I can justly say, that
they do not continue above two months and sometimes even less, at
Philadelphia; and it is something very uncommon when they continue for
three months together, in so much that it is put into the gazettes.
Nearer the pole the winters are somewhat longer, and in the quite
northern parts they are as long as the Swedish winters. The daily
meteorological observations which I have made during my stay in
America, and which I intend to annex at the end of each volume of this
work, will give more light in this matter.

3. The heat in summer is excessive, and without intermission. I own I
have seen the thermometer rise to nearly the same degree at Aobo in
Finland. But the difference is, that when the thermometer of professor
Celsius rose to thirty deg. above the freezing point once in two or
three summers at Aobo, the same thermometer did not only for three
months together stand at the same degree, but even sometimes rose
higher; not only in Pensylvania, but likewise in New York, Albany, and
a great part of Canada. During the summers which I spent at
Philadelphia, the thermometer has two or three times risen to
thirty-six deg. above the freezing point. It may therefore with great
certainty be said, that in Pensylvania the greatest part of April, the
whole May, and all the following months till October, are like our
Swedish months of June and July. So excessive and continued a heat must
certainly have very great effects. I here again refer to my
meteorological observations. It must likewise be ascribed to the
effects of this heat that the common melons, the water melons, and the
pumpions of different sorts are sown in the fields without any bells or
the like put over them, and yet are ripe as early as July; further,
that cherries are ripe at Philadelphia about the 25th. of May, and that
in Pensylvania the wheat is frequently reaped in the middle of June.

4. The whole of September, and half, if not the whole of October, are
the finest months in Pensylvania, for the preceding ones are too hot.
But these represent our July and half of August. The greatest part of
the plants are in flower in September, and many do not begin to open
their flowers before the latter end of this month. I make no doubt that
the goodness of the season, which is enlivened by a clear sky, and a
tolerably hot sun-shine, greatly contributes towards this last effort
of Flora. Yet though these plants come out so late, they are quite ripe
before the middle of October. But I am not able to account for their
coming up so late in autumn, and I rather ask, why do not the Centaurea
Jacea, the Gentiana, Amarella and Centaurium of Linnæus, and the common
golden rod, or Solidago Virgaurea flower before the end of summer? or
why do the common noble liverwort, or Anemone Hepatica, the wild
violets (Viola martia, Linn.) the mezereon (Daphne Mezereum, Linn.) and
other plants shew their flowers so early in spring? It has pleased the
Almighty Creator to give to them this disposition. The weather at
Philadelphia during these months, is shewn by my meteorological tables.
I have taken the greatest care in my observations, and have always
avoided putting the thermometer into any place where the sun could
shine upon it, or where he had before heated the wall by his beams; for
in those cases my observations would certainly not have been exact. The
weather during our September and October is too well known to want an
explanation. [15]

5. However there are some spontaneous plants in Pensylvania, which do
not every year bring their seeds to maturity before the cold begins. To
these belong some species of Gentiana, of Asters, and others. But in
these too the wisdom of the Creator has wisely ordered every thing in
its turn. For almost all the plants which have the quality of flowering
so late in autumn, are perennial, or such as, though they have no seed
to propagate themselves, can revive by shooting new branches and stalks
from the same root every year. But perhaps a natural cause may be given
to account for the late growth of these plants. Before the Europeans
came into this country, it was inhabited by savage nations, who
practised agriculture but little or not at all, and chiefly lived upon
hunting and fishing. The woods therefore have never been meddled with,
except that sometimes a small part was destroyed by fire. The accounts
which we have of the first landing of the Europeans here, shew that
they found the country all over covered with thick forests. [16] From
hence it follows, that excepting the higher trees, and the plants which
grow in the water or near the shore, the rest must for the greatest
part have been obliged to grow perhaps for a thousand years together,
in a shade, either below or between the trees, and they therefore
naturally belong to those which are only peculiar to woody and shady
places. The trees in this country drop their leaves in such quantities
in autumn, that the ground is covered with them to the depth of four or
five inches. These leaves lie a good while in the next summer before
they moulder, and this must of course hinder the growth of the plants
which are under the trees, at the same time depriving them of the few
rays of the sun which can come down to them through the thick leaves at
the top of the trees. These causes joined together make such plants
flower much later than they would otherwise do. May it not therefore be
said, that in so many centuries these plants had at last contracted a
habit of coming up very late, and that it would now require a great
space of time to make them lose this habit, and use them to quicken
their growth?

September the 24th. We employed this whole day in gathering the seeds
of plants of all kinds, and in putting scarce plants into the herbal.

September the 25th. Mr. Hesselius made me a present of a little piece
of petrified wood, which was found in the ground here. It was four
inches long, one inch broad, and three lines thick. It might plainly be
seen that it had formerly been wood. For in the places where it had
been polished, all the longitudinal fibres were easily distinguishable,
so that it might have been taken for a piece of oak which was cut
smooth. My piece was part of a still greater piece. It was here thought
to be petrified hiccory. I afterwards got more of it from other people.
Mr. Lewis Evans told me that on the boundaries of Virginia, a great
petrified block of hiccory had been found in the ground, with the bark
on it, which was likewise petrified.

Mr. John Bartram is an Englishman, who lives in the country about four
miles from Philadelphia. He has acquired a great knowledge of natural
philosophy and history, and seems to be born with a peculiar genius for
these sciences. In his youth he had no opportunity of going to school.
But by his own diligence and indefatigable application he got, without
instruction, so far in Latin, as to understand all Latin books, and
even those which were filled with botanical terms. He has in several
successive years made frequent excursions into different distant parts
of North America, with an intention of gathering all sorts of plants
which are scarce and little known. Those which he found he has planted
in his own botanical garden, and likewise sent over their seeds or
fresh roots to England. We owe to him the knowledge of many scarce
plants, which he first found, and which were never known before. He has
shewn great judgment, and an attention which lets nothing escape
unnoticed. Yet with all these great qualities, he is to be blamed for
his negligence; for he did not care to write down his numerous and
useful observations. His friends at London once obliged him to send
them a short account of one of his travels, and they were very ready,
with a good intention, though not with sufficient judgment, to get this
account printed. But this book, did Mr. Bartram more harm than good;
for as he is rather backward in writing down what he knows, this
publication was found to contain but few new observations. It would not
however be doing justice to Mr. Bartram’s merit, if it were to be
judged of by this performance. He has not filled it with a thousandth
part of the great knowledge, which he has acquired in natural
philosophy and history, especially in regard to North America. I have
often been at a loss to think of the sources, from whence he got many
things which came to his knowledge. I likewise owe him many things, for
he possessed that great quality of communicating every thing he knew. I
shall therefore in the sequel, frequently mention this gentleman. For I
should never forgive myself, if I were to omit the name of the first
inventor, and claim that as my own invention, which I learnt from
another person.

Many Muscle shells, or Mytili anatini, are to be met with on the
north-west side of the town in the clay-pits, which were at present
filled with water from a little brook in the neighbourhood. These
muscles seem to have been washed into that place by the tide, when the
water in the brook was high. For these clay-pits are not old, but were
lately made. Poor boys sometimes go out of town, wade in the water, and
gather great quantities of these shells, which they sell very easily,
they being reckoned a dainty.

The Virginian Azarole with a red fruit, or Linnæus’s Cratægus Crus
galli, is a species of hawthorn, and they plant it in hedges, for want
of that hawthorn, which is commonly used for this purpose in Europe.
Its berries are red, and of the same size, shape, and taste with those
of our hawthorn. Yet this tree does not seem to make a good hedge, for
its leaves were already fallen, whilst other trees still preserved
theirs. Its spines are very long and sharp; their length being two or
three inches. These spines are applied to some inconsiderable use. Each
berry contains two stones.

Mr. Bartram assured me, that the North American oak, cannot resist
putrefaction for near such a space of time, as the European. For this
reason, the boats (which carry all sorts of goods down from the upper
parts of the country) upon the river Hudson, which is one of the
greatest in these parts, are made of two kinds of wood. That part which
must always be under water, is made of black oak; but the upper part,
which is now above and now under water, and is therefore more exposed
to putrefaction, is made of red cedar or Juniperus Virginiana, which is
reckoned the most hardy wood in the country. The bottom is made of
black oak, because that wood is very tough. For the river being full of
stones, and the boats frequently running against them, the black oak
gives way, and therefore does not easily crack. But the cedar would not
do for this purpose; because it is hard and brittle. The oak likewise
is not so much attacked by putrefaction, when it is always kept under
water.

In autumn, I could always get good pears here; but every body
acknowledged, that this fruit would not succeed well in the country.

All my observations and remarks on the qualities of the Rattle-snake,
are inserted in the Memoirs of the Swedish Academy of Sciences, for the
year 1752, p. 316, and for the year 1753, p. 54, and thither I refer
the reader. [17]

Bears are very numerous higher up in the country, and do much mischief.
Mr. Bartram told me, that when a bear catches a cow, kills her in the
following manner: he bites a hole into the hide, and blows with all his
power into it, till the animal swells excessively and dies; for the air
expands greatly between the flesh and the hide. [18] An old Swede
called Nils Gustave’s son, who was ninety-one years of age, said, that
in his youth, the bears had been very frequent hereabouts, but that
they had seldom attacked the cattle: that whenever a bear was killed,
its flesh was prepared like pork, and that it had a very good taste.
And the flesh of bears is still prepared like ham, on the river Morris.
The environs of Philadelphia, and even the whole province of
Pensylvania in general contain very few bears, they having been
extirpated by degrees. In Virginia they kill them in several different
ways. Their flesh is eaten by both rich and poor, since it is reckoned
equal in goodness to pork. In some parts of this province, where no
hogs can be kept on account of the great numbers of bears, the people
are used to catch and kill them, and to use them instead of hogs. The
American bears however, are said to be less fierce and dangerous, than
the European ones.

September the 26th. The broad plantain, or Plantago major, grows on the
highroads, foot paths, meadows, and in gardens in great plenty. Mr.
Bartram had found this plant in many places on his travels, but he did
not know whether it was an original American plant, or whether the
Europeans had brought it over. This doubt had its rise from the savages
(who always had an extensive knowledge of the plants of the country)
pretending that this plant never grew here before the arrival of the
Europeans., They therefore give it a name which signifies, the
Englishman’s foot, for they say that where a European had walked, there
this plant grew in his foot steps.

The Chenopodium album, or Goosefoot with sinuated leaves, grows in
plenty in the gardens. But it is more scarce near the houses, in the
streets, on dunghills and corn-fields. This seems to shew, that it is
not a native of America, but has been brought over amongst other seeds
from Europe. In the same manner it is thought that the Tansey
(Tanacetum vulgare, Linn.) which grows here and there in the hedges, on
the roads, and near houses, was produced from European seeds.

The common vervain, with blue flowers, or verbena officinalis, was
shewn to me by Mr. Bartram, not far from his house in a little plain
near Philadelphia. It was the only place where he had found it in
America. And for this reason I suppose it was likewise sown here
amongst other European seeds.

Mr. Bartram was at this time-building a house in Philadelphia, and had
sunk a cellar to a considerable depth, the soil of which was thrown
out. I here observed the following strata. The upper loose soil was
only half a foot deep, and of a dark brown colour. Under it was a
stratum of clay so much blended with sand, that it was in greater
quantity than the clay itself; and this stratum was eight feet deep.
These were both brick coloured. The next stratum consisted of little
pebbles mixed with a coarse sand. The stones consisted either of a
clear, or of a dark Quartz; [19] they were quite smooth and roundish on
the outside, and lay in a stratum which was a foot deep. Then the
brick-coloured clay mixed with sand appeared again. But the depth of
this stratum could not be determined. Query, could the river formerly
have reached to this place and formed these strata?

Mr. Bartram has not only frequently found oyster-shells in the ground,
but likewise met with such shells and snails, as undoubtedly belong to
the sea, at the distance of a hundred and more English miles from the
shore. He has even found them on the ridge of mountains which separate
the English plantations from the habitations of the savages. These
mountains which the English call the blue mountains, are of
considerable height, and extend, in one continued chain from north to
south, or from Canada to Carolina. Yet in some places they have gaps,
which are as it were broke through, to afford a passage for the great
rivers, which roll down into the lower country.

The Cassia Chamæcrista grew on the roads the woods, and sometimes on
uncultivated fields, especially when shrubs grew in them. Its leaves
are like those of the Sensitive plant, or Mimosa, and have likewise the
quality of contracting when touched, in common with the leaves of the
latter.

The Crows in this country are little different from our common crows in
Sweden. Their size is the same with that of our crows, and they are as
black as jet in every part of their body. I saw them flying to day in
great numbers together. Their voice is not quite like that of our
crows, but has rather more of the cry of the rook, or Linnæus’s Corvus
frugilegus.

Mr. Bartram related, that on his journeys to the northern English
colonies, he had discovered great holes in the mountains on the banks
of rivers, which according to his description, must exactly have been
such giants pots, [20] as are to be met with in Sweden, and which I
have described in a particular dissertation read in the Royal Swedish
Academy of Sciences. Mr. Bartram has likewise addressed some letters to
the Royal Society at London upon this subject. For some people
pretended, that these holes were made by the savages, that they might
in time of war hide their corn and other valuable effects in them. But
he wrote against this opinion, and accounted for the origin of these
cavities in the following manner. When the ice settles, many pebbles
stick in it. In spring when the snow melts, the water in the rivers
swells so high that it reaches above the place where these holes are
now found in the mountains. The ice therefore will of course float as
high. And then it often happens, that the pebbles which were contained
in it, ever since autumn when it first settled on the banks of the
river, fall out of the ice upon the rocky bank, and are from thence
carried into a cleft or crack by the water. These pebbles are then
continually turned about by the water, which comes in upon them, and by
this means they gradually form the hole. The water at the same time
polishes the stone by its circular motion round it, and helps to make
the hole or cavity round. It is certain that by this turning and
tossing, the stone is at last unfit for this purpose; but the river
throws commonly every spring other stones instead of it into the
cavity, and they are turned round in the same manner. By this whirling
both the mountain and the stone afford either a fine or a coarse sand,
which is washed away by the water when in spring, or at other times it
is high enough to throw its waves into the cavity. This was the opinion
of Mr. Bartram about the origin of these cavities. The Royal Society of
Sciences at London, has given a favourable reception to, and approved
of them. [21] The remarks which I made in the summer of the year 1743,
during my stay at Land’s-Ort, in my country, will prove that I was at
that time of the same opinion, in regard to these holes. I have since
further explained this opinion in a letter to the Royal Academy of
Sciences; and this letter is still preserved in the Academy’s Memoirs,
which have not yet been published. But there is great reason to doubt,
whether all cavities of this kind in mountains, have the same origin.

Here are different species of Mulberry trees, which grow wild in the
forests of north and south America. In these parts the red mulberry
trees are more plentiful than any other. However Mr. Bartram assured me
that he had likewise seen the white mulberry trees growing wild, but
that they were more scarce. I asked him and several other people of
this country, why they did not set up silk manufactures, having such a
quantity of mulberries, which succeed so easily? For it has been
observed that when the berries fall upon the ground where it is not
compact but loose, they soon put out several fine delicate shoots. But
they replied that it would not be worth while to erect any silk
manufactures here, because labour is so dear. For a man gets from
eighteen pence to three shillings and upwards, for one day’s work, and
the women are paid in proportion. They were therefore of opinion that
the cultivation of all sorts of corn, of hemp, and of flax, would be of
greater advantage, and that at the same time it did not require near so
much care as the feeding of silk worms. By the trials of a governor in
Connecticut, which is a more northern province than New York, it is
evident however, that silk worms succeed very well here, and that this
kind of mulberry trees is very good for them. The governor brought up a
great quantity of silk worms in his court yard; and they succeeded so
well, and spun so much silk, as to afford him a sufficient quantity for
cloathing himself and all his family.

Several sorts of Vines likewise grow wild hereabouts. Whenever I made a
little excursion out of town, I saw them in numerous places climbing up
trees and hedges. They clasp around them, and cover them sometimes
entirely, and even hang down on the sides. This has the same appearance
at a distance, as the tendrils of hops climbing along trees. I enquired
of Mr. Bartram why they did not plant vineyards, or press wine from the
grapes of the wild vine. But they answered, that the same objection lay
against it, which lies against the erection of a silk manufacture, that
the necessary hands were too scarce, and it therefore was more rational
to make agriculture their chief employment. But the true reason
undoubtedly is, that the wine which is pressed out of most of the North
American wild grapes is sour and sharp, and has not near such an
agreeable taste, as that which is made from European grapes.

The Virginian Wake robin, or Arum Virginicum, grows in wet places. Mr.
Bartram told me, that the savages boiled the spadix and the berries of
this flower, and devoured it as a great dainty. When the berries are
raw, they have a harsh, pungent taste, which they lose in great measure
upon boiling.

The Sarothra Gentianoides, grows abundantly in the fields and under the
bushes, in a dry sandy ground near Philadelphia. It looks extremely
like our whortleberry bushes when they first begin to green, and when
the points of the leaves are yet red. Mr. Bartram has sent this plant
to Dr. Dillenius, but that gentleman did not know where he should range
it. It is reckoned a very good traumatic, and this quality Mr. Bartram
himself experienced; for being thrown and kicked by a vicious horse, in
such a manner as to have both his thighs greatly hurt, he boiled the
Sarothra and applied it to his wounds. It not only immediately appeased
his pain, which before had been very violent, but he likewise by its
assistance recovered in a short time.

Having read in Mr. Miller’s Botanical Dictionary, that Mr. Peter
Collinson had a particular Larch tree from America in his garden, I
asked Mr. Bartram whether he was acquainted with it, he answered, that
he had sent it himself to Mr. Collinson, that it only grew in the
eastern parts of New Jersey, and that he had met with it in no other
English plantation. It differs from the other species of Larch trees,
its cones being much less. I afterwards saw this tree in great plenty
in Canada.

Mr. Bartram was of opinion, that the apple tree was brought into
America by the Europeans, and that it never was there before their
arrival. But he looked upon peaches as an original American fruit, and
as growing wild in the greatest part of America. Others again were of
opinion, that they were first brought over by the Europeans. But all
the French in Canada agreed, that on the banks of the river Missisippi
and in the country thereabouts peaches were found growing wild in great
quantity. [22]

September the 27th. The tree which the English here call Persimon, is
the Diospyros Virginiana of Linnæus. It grows for the greatest part in
wet places, round the water pits. I have already mentioned that the
fruits of this tree are extremely bitter and sharp before they are
quite ripe, and that being eaten in that state they quite contract ones
mouth, and have a very disagreeable taste. But as soon as they are
ripe, which does not happen till they have been quite softened by the
frost, they are a very agreeable fruit. They are here eaten raw, and
seldom any other way. But in a great book, which contains a description
of Virginia, you meet with different ways of preparing the Persimon,
under the article of that name. Mr. Bartram, related that they were
commonly put upon the table amongst the sweet-meats, and that some
people made a tolerably good wine of them. Some of these Persimon
fruits were dropped on the ground in his garden, and were almost quite
ripe, having been exposed to a great degree of the heat of the sun. We
picked up a few and tasted them, and I must own that those who praised
this fruit as an agreeable one, have but done it justice. It really
deserves a place among the most palatable fruit of this country, when
the frost has thoroughly conquered its acrimony.

The Verbascum Thapsus, or great white Mullein, grows in great quantity
on roads, in hedges, on dry fields, and high meadows of a ground mixed
with sand. The Swedes here call it the tobacco of the savages, but
owned, that they did not know whether or no the Indians really used
this plant instead of tobacco. The Swedes are used to tie the leaves
round their feet and arms, when they have the ague. Some of them
prepared a tea from the leaves, for the dysentery. A Swede likewise
told me, that a decoction of the roots was injected into the wounds of
the cattle which are full of worms, which killed these worms, and made
them fall out. [23]

September the 28th. The meadows which are surrounded by wood, and were
at present mown, have a fine lively verdure. On the contrary when they
lie on hills, or in open fields, or in some elevated situation,
especially so that the sun may be able to act upon them without any
obstacles, their grass looks brown and dry. Several people from
Virginia told me, that on account of the great heat and drought, the
meadows and pastures almost always had a brown colour, and looked as if
they were burnt. The inhabitants of those parts do not therefore enjoy
the pleasure which a European feels at the sight of our verdant,
odoriferous meadows.

The American Nightshade, or the Phytolacca decandra, grows abundantly
in the fields, and under the trees, on little hills. Its black berries
are now ripe. We observed to day some little birds with a blue plumage,
and of the size of our Hortulans and Yellow Hammers (Emberiza
Citrinella and Emberiza Hortulanus) flying down from the trees, in
order to settle upon the nightshade and eat its berries.

Towards night I went to Mr. Bartram’s country seat.

September the 29th. The Gnaphalium margaritaceum, grows in astonishing
quantities upon all uncultivated fields, glades, hills, and the like.
Its height is different according to its different soil and situation.
Sometimes it is very ramose, and sometimes very little. It has a
strong, but agreeable smell. The English call it Life everlasting; for
its flowers, which consist chiefly of dry, shining, silvery leaves
(Folia calycina) do not change when dried. This plant is now every
where in full blossom. But some have already lost the flowers, and are
beginning to drop the seeds. The English ladies were used to gather
great quantities of this Life everlasting, and to pluck them with the
stalks. For they put them into pots with or without water, amongst
other fine flowers which they had gathered both in the gardens and in
the fields, and placed them as an ornament in the rooms. The English
ladies in general are much inclined to have fine flowers all the summer
long, in or upon the chimneys, sometimes upon a table, or before the
windows, either on account of their fine appearance, or for the sake of
their sweet scent. The Gnaphalium above-mentioned, was one of those,
which they kept in their rooms during the winter, because its flowers
never altered from what they were when they stood in the ground. Mr.
Bartram told me another use of this plant. A decoction of the flowers
and stalks is used to bathe any pained or bruised part, or it is rubbed
with the plant itself tied up in a bag.

Instead of flax several people made use of a kind of Dog’s bane, or
Linnæus’s Apocynum cannabinum. The people prepared the stalks of this
plant, in the same manner as we prepare those of hemp or flax. It was
spun and several kinds of stuffs were woven from it. The savages are
said to have had the art of making bags, fishing-nets, and the like,
for many centuries together, before the arrival of the Europeans.

I asked Mr. Bartram, whether he had observed in his travels, that the
water was fallen, and that the sea had formerly covered any places
which were now land. He told me, that from what he had experienced, he
was convinced that the greatest part of this country, even for several
miles together, had formerly been under water. The reasons which led
him to give credit to this opinion, were the following.

1. On digging in the blue mountains, which are above three hundred
English miles distant from the sea, you find loose oyster and other
sorts of shells, and they are also likewise to be met with in the
vallies formed by these mountains.

2. A vast quantity of petrified shells are found in limestone, flint,
and sandstone, on the same mountains. Mr. Bartram assured me at the
same time, that it was incredible what quantities of them there were in
the different kinds of stones of which the mountains consist.

3. The same shells are likewise dug in great quantity, quite entire and
not mouldered, in the provinces of Virginia and Maryland, as also in
Philadelphia and in New York.

4. On digging wells (not only in Philadelphia, but likewise in other
places) the people have met with trees, roots, and leaves of oak, for
the greatest part, not yet rotten, at the depth of eighteen feet.

5. The best soil and the richest mould is to be met with in the vallies
hereabouts. These vallies are commonly crossed by a rivulet or brook.
And on their declivity, a mountain commonly rises, which in those
places where the brook passes close to it, looks as if it were cut on
purpose. Mr. Bartram believed, that all these vallies formerly were
lakes; that the water had by degrees hollowed out the mountain, and
opened a passage for itself through it; and that the great quantity of
slime which is contained in the water, and which had subsided to the
bottom of the lake, was the rich soil which is at present in the
vallies, and the cause of their great fertility. But such vallies and
cloven mountains are very frequent in the country, and of this kind is
the peculiar gap between two mountains, through which a river takes its
course or boundaries of New York and Pennsylvania. The people in a jest
say, that this opening by the D—l, as he wanted to go out of
Pennsylvania into New York.

6. The whole appearance of the blue mountains, plainly shews that the
water formerly covered at part of them. For many are broken in a
peculiar manner, but the highest are plain.

7. When the savages are told, that shells are found on these high
mountains, and that from thence there is reason to believe that the sea
must formerly have extended to them, and even in part flown over them;
they answer that this is not new to them, they having a tradition from
their ancestors among them, that the sea formerly surrounded these
mountains.

8. The water in rivers and brooks likewise decreases. Mills, which
sixty years ago were built on rivers, and at that time had a sufficient
supply of water almost all the year long, have at present so little,
that they cannot be used, but after a heavy rain, or when the snow
melts in spring. This decrease of water in part arises from the great
quantity of land which is now cultivated, and from the extirpation of
great forests for that purpose.

9. The sea-shore increases likewise in time. This arises from the
quantity of sand continually thrown on shore from the bottom of the
sea, by the waves.

Mr. Bartram thought that some peculiar attention should be paid to
another thing relating to these observations. The shells which are to
be found petrified on the northern mountains, are of such kinds as at
present are not to be got in the sea, in the same latitude, and they
are not fished on the shore, till you come to South Carolina. Mr.
Bartram from hence took an occasion to defend Dr. Thomas Burnet’s
opinion, that the earth before the deluge was in a different position
towards the sun. He likewise asked whether the great bones which are
sometimes found in the ground in Siberia, and which are supposed to be
elephant’s bones and tusks, did not confirm this opinion. For at
present those animals cannot live in such cold countries; but if
according to Dr. Burnet, the sun once formed different zones about our
earth, from those it now makes, the elephant may easily be supposed to
have lived in Siberia. [24] However it seems that all which we have
hitherto mentioned, may have been the effect of different causes. To
those belong the universal deluge, the increase of land which is merely
the work of time, and the changes of the course of rivers, which when
the snow melts and in great floods, leave their first beds, and form
new ones.

At some distance from Mr. Bartram’s country house, a little brook
flowed through the wood, and likewise ran over a rock. The attentive
Mr. Bartram here shewed me several little cavities in the rock, and we
plainly saw that they must have been generated in the manner I before
described, that is, by supposing a pebble to have remained in a cleft
of the rock, and to have been turned round by the violence of the
water, till it had formed such cavity in the mountain. For on putting
our hands into one of these cavities, we found that it contained
numerous small pebbles, whose surface was quite smooth and round. And
these stones we found in each of the holes.

Mr. Bartram shewed me a number of plants which he had collected into a
herbal on his travels. Among these were the following, which likewise
grow in the northern parts of Europe, of which he had either got the
whole plants, or only broken branches.


    1. Betula alba. The common birch tree, which he had found on the
       cats-hills.
    2. Betula nana. This species of birch grows in several low places
       towards the hills.
    3. Comarum palustre, in the meadows, between the hills in New
       Jersey.
    4. Gentiana lutea, the great Gentian, from the fields near the
       mountains. It was very like our variety, but had not so many
       flowers under each leaf.
    5. Linnæa borealis, from the mountains in Canada. It creeps along
       the ground.
    6. Myrica Gale, from the neighbourhood of the river Susquehanna,
       where it grows in a wet soil.
    7. Potentilla fruticosa, from the swampy fields and low meadows,
       between the river Delaware, and the river New York.
    8. Trientalis Europæa, from the cats-hills.
    9. Triglochin maritimum, from the salt springs towards the country
       of the five nations.


Mr. Bartram shewed me a letter from East Jersey, in which he got the
following account of the discovery of an Indian grave. In the April of
the year 1744, as some people were digging a cellar, they came upon a
great stone, like a tombstone, which was at last got out with great
difficulty, and about four feet deeper under it, they met with a large
quantity of human bones and a cake of maize. The latter was yet quite
untouched, and several of the people present tasted it out of
curiosity. From these circumstances it was concluded that this was a
grave of a person of note among the savages. For it is their custom to
bury along with the deceased, meat any other things which he liked
best. The stone was eight feet long, four feet broad, and even some
inches more where it was broadest, and fifteen inches thick at one end,
but only twelve inches at the other end. It consisted of the same
coarse kind of stone, that is to be got in this country. There were no
letters nor other characters visible on it.

The corn which the Indians chiefly cultivate is the Maize, or Zea Mays,
Linn. Then have little corn fields for that purpose. But besides this,
they likewise plant a great quantity of Squashes, a species of pumpions
or melons, which they have always cultivated, even in the remotest
ages. The Europeans settled in America, got the seeds of this plant,
and at present their gardens are full of it, the fruit has an agreeable
taste when it is well prepared. They are commonly boiled, then crushed
(as we are used to do with turneps when we make a pulse of them) and
some pepper or other spice thrown upon them, and the dish is ready. The
Indians likewise sow several kinds of beans, which for the greatest
part they have got from the Europeans. But pease which they likewise
sow, they have always had amongst them, before any foreigners came into
the country. The squashes of the Indians, which now are likewise
cultivated by the Europeans, belong to those kinds of gourds
(cucurbita,) which ripen before any other. They are a very delicious
fruit, but will not keep. I have however seen them kept till pretty
laid In winter.

September the 30th. Wheat and rye are sown in autumn about this time,
and commonly reaped towards the end of June, or in the beginning of
July. These kinds of corn, however, are sometimes ready to be reaped in
the middle of June, and there are even examples that they have been
mown in the beginning of that month. Barley and oats are sown in April,
and they commonly begin to grow ripe towards the end of July.
Buck-wheat is sown in the middle or at the end of July, and is about
this time, or somewhat later, ready to be reaped. If it be sown before
the above-mentioned time, as in May, or in June, it only gives flowers,
and little or no corn.

Mr. Bartram and other people assured me, that most of the cows which
the English have here, are the offspring of those which they bought of
the Swedes when they were masters of the country. The English
themselves are said to have brought over but few. The Swedes either
brought their cattle from home, or bought them of the Dutch, who were
then settled here.

Near the town, I saw an Ivy or Hedera Helix, planted against the wall
of a stone building, which was so covered by the fine green leaves of
this plant, as almost to conceal the whole. It was doubtless brought
over from Europe, for I have never perceived it any where else on my
travels through North-America. But in its stead I have often seen wild
vines made to run up the walls.

I asked Mr. Bartram, whether he had observed, that trees and plants
decreased in proportion as they were brought further to the North, as
Catesby pretends? He answered, that the question should be more
limited, and then his opinion would prove the true one. There are some
trees which grow better in southern countries, and become less as you
advance to the north. Their seeds or berries are sometimes brought into
colder climates by birds and by other accidents. They gradually
decrease in growth, till at last they will not grow at all. On the
other hand, there are other trees and herbs which the wise Creator
destined for the northern countries, and they grow there to an amazing
size. But the further they are transplanted to the south, the less they
grow; till at last they degenerate so much as not to be able to grow at
all. Other plants love a temperate climate, and if they be carried
either south or north, they will not succeed well, but always decrease.
Thus for example Pensylvania contains some trees which grow exceedingly
well, but always decrease in proportion as they are carried further off
either to the north, or to the south.

I afterwards on my travels, had frequent proofs of this truth. The
Sassafras, which grows in Pensylvania, under forty deg. of lat. and
becomes a pretty tall and thick tree, was so little at Oswego and Fort
Nicholson, between forty-three. and forty-four deg. of lat. that it
hardly reached the height of two or four feet, and was seldom so thick
as the little finger of a full grown person. This was likewise the case
with the Tulip tree. For in Pensylvania it grows as high as our tallest
oaks and firs, and its thickness is proportionable to its height. But
about Oswego it was not above twelve feet high, and no thicker than a
man’s arm. The Sugar Maple, or Acer saccharinum, is one of the most
common trees in the woods of Canada, and grows very tall. But in the
southern provinces, as New Jersey and Pensylvania, it only grows on the
northern side of the blue mountains, and on the steep hills which are
on the banks of the river, and which are turned to the north. Yet there
it does not attain to a third or fourth part of the height which it has
in Canada. It is needless to mention more examples.

October the 1st. The gnats which are very troublesome at night here,
are called Musquetoes. They are exactly like the gnats in Sweden, only
somewhat less, and the description which is to be met with in Dr.
Linnæus’s Systema Naturæ, and Fauna Suecica, fully agrees with them,
and they are called by him Culex pipiens. In day time or at night they
come into the houses, and when the people are gone to bed they begin
their disagreeable humming, approach always nearer to the bed, and at
last suck up so much blood, that they can hardly fly away. Their bite
causes blisters in people of a delicate complexion. When the weather
has been cool for some days, the musquetoes disappear. But when it
changes again, and especially after a rain, they gather frequently in
such quantities about the houses, that their numbers are astonishing.
The chimneys of the English which have no valves for shutting them up,
afford the gnats a free entrance into the houses. In sultry evenings,
they accompany the cattle in great swarms, from the woods to the houses
or to town, and when they are drove before the houses, the gnats fly in
wherever they can. In the greatest heat of summer, they are so numerous
in some places, that the air seems to be quite full of them, especially
near swamps and stagnant waters, such as the river Morris in New
Jersey. The inhabitants therefore make a fire before their houses to
expell these disagreeable guests by the smoak. The old Swedes here,
said that gnats had formerly been much more numerous; that even at
present they swarmed in vast quantities on the sea shore near the salt
water, and that those which troubled us this autumn in Philadelphia
were of a more venomous kind, than they commonly used to be. This last
quality appeared from the blisters, which were formed on the spots,
where the gnats had inserted their sting. In Sweden I never felt any
other inconvenience from their sting, than a little itching; whilst
they sucked. But when they stung me here at night, my face was so
disfigured by little red spots and blisters, that I was almost ashamed
to shew myself.

I have already mentioned somewhat about the enclosures usual here; I
now add, that most of the planks which are put horizontally, and of
which the enclosures in the environs of Philadelphia chiefly consist,
are of the red cedar wood, which is here reckoned more durable than any
other. But where this could not be got, either white or black oak
supplied its place. The people were likewise very glad if they could
get cedar wood for the posts, or else they took white oak, or chesnut,
as I was told by Mr. Bartram. But it seems that that kind of wood in
general does not keep well in the ground for a considerable time. I saw
some posts made of chesnut wood, and put into the ground only the year
before, which were already for the greatest part rotten below.

The Sassafras tree, or Laurus Sassafras, Linn. grows in abundance in
the country, and stands scattered up and down the woods, and near
bushes and enclosures. On old grounds, which are left uncultivated, it
is one of the first that comes up, and is as plentiful as young birches
are on those Swedish fields, which are formed by burning the trees
which grew on them. [25] The sassafras grows in a dry loose ground, of
a pale brick colour, which consists for the greatest part of sand,
mixed with some clay. It seems to be but a poor soil. The mountains
round Gothenburgh, in Sweden, would afford many places rich enough for
the Sassafras to grow in, and I even fear they would be too rich. I
here saw it both in the woods amidst other trees, and more frequently
by itself along the enclosures. In both it looks equally fresh. I have
never seen it on wet or low places. The people here gather its flowers,
and use them instead of tea. But the wood itself is of no use in
œconomy; for when it is set on fire, it causes a continual crackling,
without making any good fire. The tree spreads its roots very much, and
new shoots come up from them in some places; but these shoots are not
good for transplanting, because they have so few fibres besides the
root, which connects them to the main stem, that they cannot well
strike into the ground. If therefore any one would plant Sassafras
trees he must endeavour to get their berries, which however is
difficult, since the birds eat them before they are half ripe. The cows
are very greedy after the tender new shoots, and look for them every
where.

The bark of this tree is used by the women here in dying worsted a fine
lasting orange colour, which does not fade in the sun. They use urine
instead of alum in dying, and boil the dye in a brass boiler, because
in an iron vessel it does not yield so fine a colour. A woman in
Virginia has successfully employed the berries of the Sassafras against
a great pain in one of her feet, which for three years together she had
to such a degree, that it almost hindered her from walking. She was
advised to broil the berries of sassafras, and to rub the painful parts
of her foot with the oil, which by this means would be got from the
berries. She did so, but at the same time it made her vomit; yet this
was not sufficient to keep her from following the prescription three
times more, though as often as she made use thereof, it always had the
same effect. However she was entirely freed from that pain, and
perfectly recovered.

A black Woodpecker with a red head, or the Picus pileatus, Linn. is
frequent in the Pensylvanian forests, and stays the winter, as I know
from my own experience. It is reckoned among those birds which destroy
the maize; because it settles on the ripe ears, and destroys them with
its bill. The Swedes call it Tillkroka, but all other woodpeckers,
those with gold yellow wings excepted, are called Hackspickar in the
Swedish language. I intend to describe them altogether more exactly in
a particular work. I only observe here, that almost all the different
species of woodpeckers are very noxious to the maize, when it begins to
ripen: for by picking holes in the membrane round the ear, the rain
gets into it, and causes the ear with all the corn it contains to rot.

October the 3d. In the morning I set out for Wilmington, which was
formerly called Christina by the Swedes, and is thirty English miles to
the south west of Philadelphia. Three miles behind Philadelphia I
passed the river Skulkill in a ferry, beyond which the country appears
almost a continual chain of mountains and vallies. The mountains have
an easy slope on all sides, and the vallies are commonly crossed by
brooks with crystal streams. The greater part of the country is covered
with several kinds of deciduous trees; for I scarcely saw a single tree
of the fir kind, if I except a few red cedars. The forest was high, but
open below, so that it left a free prospect to the eye, and no
under-wood obstructed the passage between the trees. It would have been
easy in some places to have gone under the branches with a carriage for
a quarter of a mile, the trees standing at great distances from each
other, and the ground being very level. In some places little glades
opened, which were either meadows, pastures, or corn-fields; of which
latter some were cultivated and others not. In a few places, several
houses were built close to each other. But for the greatest part they
were single. In part of the fields the wheat was already sown, in the
English manner without trenches, but with furrows pretty close
together. I sometimes saw the country people very busy in sowing their
rye. Near every farm-house was a little field with maize. The
inhabitants hereabouts were commonly either English or Swedes.

All the day long I saw a continual variety of trees; walnut trees of
different sorts, which were all full of nuts; chesnut trees quite
covered with fine chesnuts; mulberries, sassafras, liquidambar, tulip
trees, and many others.

Several species of vines grew wild hereabouts. They run up to the
summits of the trees, their clusters of grapes and their leaves
covering the stems. I even saw some young oaks five or six fathoms
high, whose tops were crowned with vines. The ground is that which is
so common hereabouts, which I have already described, viz. a clay mixed
with a great quantity of sand, and covered with a rich soil or
vegetable earth. The vines are principally seen on trees which stand
single in corn-fields, and at the end of woods, where the meadows,
pastures, and fields begin, and likewise along the enclosures, where
they cling with their tendrils round the trees which stand there. The
lower parts of the plant are full of grapes, which hang below the
leaves, and were now almost ripe, and had a pleasant sourish taste. The
country people gather them in great quantities, and sell them in the
town. They are eaten without further preparation, and commonly people
are presented with them when they come to pay a visit.

The soil does not seem to be deep hereabouts; for the upper black
stratum is hardly two inches. This I had an occasion to see both in
such places where the ground is dug up, and in such where the water,
during heavy flowers of rain, has made cuts, which are pretty numerous
here. The upper soil has a dark colour, and the next a pale colour like
bricks. I have observed everywhere in America, that the depth of the
upper soil does not by far agree with the computation of some people,
though we can almost be sure, that in some places it never was stirred
since the deluge. I shall be more particular in this respect
afterwards. [26]

The Datura Stramonium, or Thorn Apple, grows in great quantities near
all the villages. Its height is different according to the soil it is
in. For in a rich soil it grows eight or ten feet high, but in a hard
and poor ground, it will seldom come up to six inches. This Datura,
together with the Phytolacca, or American Nightshade, grow here in
those places near the gardens, houses, and roads, which in Sweden are
covered with nettles and goose-foot, which European plants are very
scarce in America. But the Datura and Phytolacca are the worst weeds
here, nobody knowing any particular use of them.

Turnep-fields are sometimes to be seen. In the middle of the highroad I
perceived a dead black snake, which was four feet six inches long, and
an inch and a half in thickness. It belonged to the viper kind.

Late at night a great Halo appeared round the moon. The people said
that it prognosticated either a storm, or rain, or both together. The
smaller the ring is, or the nearer it comes to the moon, the sooner
this weather sets in. But this time neither of these changes happened,
and the halo had foretold a coldness in the air.

I saw to-day the Chermes of the alder (Chermes Alni) in great abundance
on the branches of that tree, which for that reason looks quite white,
and at a distance appears as it were covered with mould.

October the 4th. I continued my journey early in the morning, and the
country still had the same appearance as I went on. It was a continual
chain of pretty high hills, with an easy ascent on all sides, and of
vallies between them. The soil consisted of a brick coloured mould,
mixed with clay, and a few pebbles, I rode sometimes through woods of
several sorts of trees, and sometimes amidst little fields, which had
been cleared of the wood, and which at present were corn-fields,
meadows, and pastures. The farm-houses stood single, sometimes near the
roads, and sometimes at a little distance from them, so that the space
between the road and the houses was taken up with little fields and
meadows. Some of the houses were built of stone, two stories high, and
covered with shingles of the white cedar. But most of the houses were
wooden, and the crevices stopped up with clay, instead of moss, which
we make use of for that purpose. No valves were to be met with in the
chimneys, and the people even did not know what I meant by them. The
ovens were commonly built up at some distance from the houses, and were
either under a roof, or without any covering against the weather. The
fields bore partly buck-wheat, which was not yet cut, partly maize, and
partly wheat, which was but lately sown; but sometimes they lay fallow.
The vines climbed to the top of several trees, and hung down again on
both sides. Other trees again were surrounded by the ivy (Hedera
quinquefolia) which with the same flexibility ascended to a great
height. The Smilax laurifolia always joined with the ivy, and together
with it twisted itself round the trees. The leaves of the ivy were at
this time commonly reddish, but those of the vine were still quite
green. The trees which were surrounded with them, looked at a distance
like those which are covered with hops in our country, (and on seeing
them from afar off, one might expect to find wild hops climbing upon
the trees.) Walnut and chesnut trees were common near enclosures, in
woods, and on hills, and at present were loaded with their fruit. The
persimon was likewise plentiful near the roads, and in the woods. It
had a great quantity of fruit, but they were not yet fit for eating,
since the frost had not softened them. At some distance from
Wilmington, I passed a bridge over a little river, which falls north
into the Delaware. The rider pays here twopence toll for himself and
his horse.

Towards noon I arrived at Wilmington.

Wilmington is a little town, about thirty English miles south-west from
Philadelphia. It was founded in the year 1733. Part of it stands upon
the grounds belonging to the Swedish church, which annually receives
certain rents, out of which they pay the minister’s salary, and employ
the rest for other uses. The houses are built of stone, and look very
pretty; yet they are not built close together, but large open places
are left between them. The quakers have a meeting-house in this town.
The Swedish church, which I intend to mention in the sequel, is half a
mile out of town eastwards. The parsonage is under the same roof with
the church. A little river called Christina-kill passes by the town,
and from thence falls into the Delaware. By following its banks one
goes three miles before one reaches the Delaware. The river is said to
be sufficiently deep, so that the greatest vessel may come quite up to
the town: for at its mouth or juncture with the Delaware, it is
shallowest, and yet its depth even there when the water is lowest, is
from two fathoms to two and a half. But as you go higher its depth
encreases to three, three and a half, and even four fathoms. The
largest ships therefore may safely, and with their full cargoes come
to, and from the town with the tide. from Wilmington, you have a fine
prospect of a great part of the river Delaware, and the ships sailing
on it. On both sides of the river Christina-kill, almost from the place
where the redoubt is built to its juncture with the Delaware, are low
meadows, which afford a great quantity of hay to the inhabitants. The
town carries on a considerable trade, and would have been more
enlarged, if Philadelphia and Newcastle, which are both towns of a more
ancient date, were not so near on both sides of it.

The Redoubt upon the river Christina-kill, was erected this summer,
when it was known that the French and Spanish privateers intended to
sail up the river, and to attempt a landing. It stands, according to
the accounts of the late Rev. Mr. Tranberg, on the same spot, where the
Swedes had built theirs. It is remarkable, that on working in the
ground this summer, to make this redoubt, an old Swedish silver coin of
Queen Christina, not quite so big as a shilling was found at the depth
of a yard, among some other things. The Rev. Mr. Tranberg afterwards
presented me with it. On one side were the arms of the house of Wasa
with the inscription: CHRISTINA, D. G. DE. RE. SVE. that is, Christina,
by the grace of God, elected Queen of Sweden; and near this the year of
our Lord 1633. On the reverse were these words: MONETA NOVA REGNI SVEC.
or, a new coin of the kingdom of Sweden. At the same time a number of
old iron tools, such as axes, shovels, and the like, were discovered.
The redoubt, that is now erected, consists of bulwarks of planks, with
a rampart on the outside. Near it is the powder magazine, in a vault
built of bricks. At the erection of this little fortification it was
remarkable, that the quakers, whose tenets reject even defensive war,
were as busy as the other people in building it. For the fear of being
every moment suddenly attacked by privateers, conquered all other
thoughts. Many of them scrupled to put their own hands to the work; but
forwarded, it by supplies of money, and by getting ready every thing,
which was necessary.

October the 5th. It was my design to cross the Delaware, and to get
into New Jersey with a view to get acquainted with the country; but as
there was no ferry here to bring my horse over, I set out on my return
to Philadelphia. I partly went along the high road, and partly deviated
on one or the other side of it, in order to take more exact
observations of the country, and of its natural history.

The maize, was sown in several places. In some its stalks were cut
somewhat below the ear, dried and put up in narrow high stacks, in
order to keep them as a food for the cattle in winter. The lower part
of the stalk had likewise leaves, but as they commonly dry of
themselves, the people do not like to feed the cattle with them, all
their flavour being lost: But the upper ones are cut, whilst they are
yet green.

The vallies between the hills commonly contain brooks: but they are not
very broad, and require no bridges, so that carriages and horse can
easily pass through them, for the water is seldom above six inches
deep.

The leaves of most trees were yet quite green, such as those of oaks,
chesnut trees, black walnut trees, hiccory, tulip trees, and sassafras.
The two latter species are found in plenty on the sides of the little
woods, on hills, on the fallow fields, near hedges, and on the road.
The persimon likewise had still its leaves; however some trees of this
kind had dropt them. The leaves of the American bramble were at present
almost entirely red, though some of these bushes yet retained a lively
green in the leaves. The Cornelian cherry likewise had already a
mixture of brown and pale leaves. The leaves of the red maple were also
red.

I continued my journey to Chichester, a borough upon the Delaware,
where travellers pass the river in a ferry. They build here every year
a number of small ships for sale. From an iron work which lies higher
in the country, they carry iron bars to this place, and ship them.

Canoes are boats made of one piece of wood, and are much in use with
the farmers, and other people upon the Delaware, and some little
rivers. For that purpose a very thick trunk of a tree is hollowed out;
the red juniper or red cedar tree, the white cedar, the chesnut tree,
the white oak, and the tulip tree are commonly made use of for this
purpose. The canoes made of red and white cedar are reckoned the best,
because they swim very light upon the water, and last twenty years
together. But of these, the red cedar canoes are most preferable. Those
made of chesnut trees will likewise last for a good while. But those of
white oak are hardly serviceable above six years, and also swim deep,
because they are so heavy. The Liquidambar tree, or Liquidambar
styraciflua, Linn. is big enough but unfit making canoes, because it
imbibes the water. The canoes which are made of the tulip tree, scarce
last as long as those of white oak. The size of the canoes is
different, according to the purposes they are destined for. They can
carry six persons; who however, must by no means be unruly, but sit at
the bottom of the canoe in the quietest manner possible, lest the boat
overset. The Swedes in Pensylvania and New Jersey near the rivers, have
no other boats to go to Philadelphia in, which they commonly do twice a
week on the market days, though they be several miles distant from the
town, and meet sometimes with severe storms; yet misfortunes from the
oversetting, &c; of these canoes are seldom heard of, though they might
well be expected on account of the small size of this kind of boats.
However a great deal of attention and care is necessary in managing the
canoes, when the wind is somewhat violent; for they are narrow, round
below, have no keel, and therefore may easily be overset. Accordingly
when the wind is more brisk than ordinary, the people make for the
land.

The common garden cresses grow in several places on the roads about
Chichester, and undoubtedly come from the seeds, which were by chance
carried out of the many gardens about that town.

The American brambles are here in great plenty. When a field is left
uncultivated, they are the first plants that appear on it; and I
frequently observed them in such fields as are annually ploughed, and
have corn sown on them. For when these bushes are once rooted, they are
not easily extirpated. Such a bush runs out tendrils sometimes four
fathoms off its root, and then throws a new root, so that on pulling it
up, you meet with roots on both ends. On some old grounds, which had
long been uncultivated, there were so many bushes of this kind, that it
was very troublesome and dangerous walking in them. A wine is made of
the berries, as I have already mentioned. The berries are likewise
eaten when they are ripe, and taste well. No other use is made of them.

October the 6th. The Chenopodium anthelminticum is very plentiful on
the road, and on the banks of the river, but chiefly in dry places in a
loose sandy soil. The English who are settled here, call it Wormseed
and Jerusalem Oak. It has a disagreeable scent. In Pensylvania and New
Jersey its seeds are given to children, against the worms, and for that
purpose they are excellent. The plant itself is spontaneous in both
provinces.

The environs of Chichester, contain many gardens, which are full of
apple trees, sinking under the weight of innumerable apples. Most of
them are winter fruit, and therefore were yet quite sour. Each farm has
a garden, and so has each house of the better sort. The extent of these
gardens is likewise not inconsiderable, and therefore affords, the
possessor all the year long, great supplies in his house-keeping, both
for eating and drinking. I frequently was surprized at the prudence of
the inhabitants of this country. As soon as one has bought a piece of
ground, which is neither built upon nor sown, his first care is to get
young apple trees, and to make a garden. He next proceeds to build his
house, and lastly prepares the uncultivated ground to receive corn. For
it is well known that the trees require many years before they arrive
to perfection, and this makes it necessary to plant them first. I now
perceived near the farms, mills, wheels, and other instruments which
are made use of in crushing the apples, in order to prepare cyder from
them afterwards.

From Chichester I went on towards Philadelphia. The oaks were the most
plentiful trees in the wood. But there were several species of them,
all different from the European ones. The swine now went about in great
herds in the oak woods, where they fed upon the acorns which fell in
great abundance from the trees. Each hog had a wooden triangular yoke
about its neck, by which it was hindered from penetrating through the
holes in the enclosures; and for this reason, the enclosures are made
very slender, and easy to put up, and do not require much wood. No
other enclosures are in use, but those which are so like sheep hurdles.
A number of squirrels were in the oak woods, partly running on the
ground, and partly leaping from one branch to another; and at this time
they chiefly fed upon acorns.

I seldom saw beach trees; but I found them quite the same with the
European ones. Their wood is reckoned very good for making joiner’s
planes of.

I do not remember seeing any other than the black Ants, or Formica
nigra in Pensylvania. They are as black as a coal, and of two sorts,
some very little, like the least of our ants, and others of the size of
our common reddish ants. I have not yet observed any hills of theirs,
but only seen some running about singly. In other parts of America, I
have likewise found other species of ants, as I intend to remark in the
sequel.

The common Privet, or Ligustrum vulgare, is made use of in many places,
as a hedge round corn-fields and gardens, and on my whole voyage, I did
not see that any other trees were made use of for this purpose, though
the Englishmen here, well know that the hawthorn makes a much better
hedge. The privet hedges grow very thick and close, but having no
spines, the hogs, and even other animals break easily through them; and
when they have once made a hole, it requires a long while before it
grows up again. But when the hedges consist of spinose bushes, the
cattle will hardly attempt to get through them.

About noon I came through Chester, a little market-town which lies on
the Delaware. A rivulet coming down out of the country, passes through
this place, and discharges itself into the Delaware. There is a bridge
over it. The houses stand dispersed. Most of them are built of stone,
and two or three stories high; some are however made of wood. In the
town is a church, and a market-place.

Wheat was now sown every where. In some places it was already green,
having been sown four weeks before. The wheat fields were made in the
English manner, having no ditches in them, but numerous furrows for
draining the water, at the distance of four or six foot from one
another. Great stumps of the trees which had been cut down, are every
where seen on the fields, and this shews that the country has been but
lately cultivated.

The roots of the trees do not go deep into the ground, but spread
horizontally. I had opportunities of observing this in several places
where the trees were dug up; for I seldom saw one, whose roots went
above a foot deep into the ground, though it was a loose soil.

About two English miles behind Chester, I passed by an iron forge,
which was to the right hand by the road side. It belonged to two
brothers, as I was told. The ore however is not dug here, but thirty or
forty miles from hence, where it is first melted in the oven, and then
carried to this place. The bellows were made of leather, and both they
and the hammers, and even the hearth, but small in proportion to ours.
All the machines were worked by water. The iron was wrought into bars.

To day I remarked, as I have since frequently seen on my travels in
this country, that horses are very greedy of apples. When they are let
into an orchard to feed upon the grass, if there are any apples on the
ground, they frequently leave the fresh green grass, and eat the
apples, which, however, are not reckoned a good food for them; and
besides that, it is too expensive.

The red Maple, or Acer rubrum is plentiful in these places. Its proper
situations are chiefly swampy, wet places, in which the alder commonly
is its companion. Out of its wood they make plates, spinning-wheels,
rolls, feet for chairs and beds, and all sorts of work. With the bark,
they dye both worsted and linnen, giving it a dark blue colour. For
that purpose it is first boiled in water; and some copperas, such as
the hat-makers and shoe-makers commonly make use of, is added, before
the stuff (which is to be dyed) is put into the boiler. This bark
likewise affords a good black ink. When the tree is felled early in
spring, a sweet juice runs out of it, like that which runs out of our
birches. This juice they do not make any use of here, but in Canada,
they make both treacle and sugar of it. Here is a variety of this tree
which they call the curled Maple, the wood being as it were marbled
within; it is much used in all kinds of joiner’s work, and the utensils
made of this wood, are preferable to those made of any other sort of
wood in the country, and are much dearer than those made of the wood of
the wild cherry trees (Prunus Virginiana) or of black walnut trees. But
the most valuable utensils were those made of curled black walnut, for
that is an excessive scarce kind of wood. The curled maple was likewise
very uncommon, and you frequently find trees, whose outsides are
marbled, but their inside not. The tree is therefore cut very deep
before it is felled, to see whether it has veins in every part.

In the evening I reached Philadelphia.

October the 7th. In the morning we crossed the Delaware in a boat to
the other side which belongs to New Jersey, each person paying
fourpence for his passage. The country here is very different from that
in Pensylvania; for here the ground is almost mere sand, but in the
other province it is mixed with a good deal of clay, and this makes the
ground pretty rich. The discoveries which I made to day of insects and
plants, I intend to mention in another work.

A soil like this in New Jersey, one might be led to think, could
produce nothing because it is so dry and poor. Yet the maize which is
planted on it grows extremely well, and we saw many fields filled with
it. The earth is of that kind in which tobacco commonly succeeds, but
it is not near so rich. The stalks of maize are commonly eight feet
high, more or less, and are full of leaves. The maize is planted as
usual in rows, in little squares, so that there is a space of five feet
and six inches between each square, both in length and breadth; on each
of these little hills three or four stalks come up, which were not yet
cut for the cattle; each stalk again has from one to four ears, which
are large and full of corn. A sandy ground could never have been better
employed. In some places the ground between the maize is ploughed, and
rye sown in it, so that when the maize is cut, the rye remains upon the
field.

We frequently saw Asparagus growing near the enclosures, in a loose
soil, on uncultivated sandy fields. It is likewise plentiful between
the maize, and was at present full of berries, but I cannot tell
whether the seeds are carried by the wind to the places where I saw
them; it is however certain, that I have likewise seen it growing wild
in other parts of America.

The Worm-seed, is likewise plentiful on the roads, in a sandy ground
such as that near the ferry opposite to Philadelphia. I have already
mentioned that it is given to children, as a remedy to carry off the
worms. It is then put into brandy, and when it has been in it for one
hour, it is taken out again, dried and given to the children, either in
beer sweetened with treacle, or in any other liquor. Its effects talked
of differently. Some people say it kills the worms, others again
pretend that it forwards their encrease. But I know by my own
experience, that this wormseed has had very good effects upon children.

The Purslain, which we cultivate in our gardens, grows wild in great
abundance in the loose soil amongst the maize. It was there creeping on
the ground, and its stalks were pretty thick and succulent; which
circumstance very justly gave reason to wonder from whence it could get
juice sufficient to supply it in such a dry ground. It is to be found
plentiful in such soil, in other places of this country.

The Bidens bipinnata, is here called Spanish Needles. It grows single
about farm houses, near roads, pales and along the hedges. It was yet
partly in flower; but for the greatest part it was already out of
blossom. When its seeds are ripe it is very disagreeable walking where
it grows. For they stick to the cloaths and make them black; and it is
difficult to discharge the black spots which they occasion. Each seed
has three spines at its extremity; and each of these again is full of
numerous little hooks, by which the seed fastens itself to the cloaths.

In the woods and along the hedges in this neighbourhood, some single
red Ants, (Formica rubra) crept about, and their antennæ or feel-horns
were as long as their bodies.

Towards night we returned to Philadelphia.

October the 8th. The shore of Pensylvania has a great quantity of the
finest oysters. About this time the people began to bring them to
Philadelphia for sale. They come from that part of the shore, which is
near the mouth of the river Delaware. They are reckoned as good as the
New York oysters, of which I shall make more particular mention
afterwards. However I thought that this latter sort of oysters was
generally larger, fatter and more palatable. It is remarkable that they
commonly became palatable at the time when the agues had left off their
fury. Some men went with whole carts full of oysters, crying them about
the streets; this is unusual here when any thing else is to be sold,
but in London it is very common. The oyster shells are thrown away,
though formerly a lime was burnt from them, which has been found
unnecessary, there being stones for burning of lime in this
neighbourhood, and the lime of oyster shells not being as good as this
other lime. The people shewed me some of houses in this town which were
built of stone, and to the mason work of which the lime of oyster
shells had been employed. The walls of these houses were always so wet
two or three days before a rain, that great drops of water could
plainly be perceived on them; and thus they were as good as
Hygrometers. [27] Several people who had lived in this kind of houses
complained of these inconveniences.

October the 9th. Pease are not much cultivated in Pensylvania at
present, though formerly, according to the accounts of some old Swedes,
every farmer had a little field with pease. In New Jersey and the
southern parts of New York, pease are likewise not so much cultivated
as they used to be. But in the northern parts of New York, or about
Albany, and in all the parts of Canada which are inhabited by the
French, the people sow great quantities, and have a plentiful crop. In
the former colonies, a little despicable insect has obliged the people
to give up so useful a part of agriculture. This little insect was
formerly little known, but a few years ago it multiplied excessively.
It couples in summer, about the time when the pease are in blossom, and
then deposites an egg into almost every one of the little pease. When
the pease are ripe, their outward appearance does not discover the
worm, which, however, is found within, when it is cut. This worm lies
in the pea, if it is not stirred during all the winter, and part of the
spring, and in that space of time consumes the greatest part of the
inside of the pea: In spring therefore little more than the mere thin
outward skin is left. This worm at last changes into an insect, of the
coleoptera class, and in that state creeps through a hole of its own
making in the husk, and flies off, in order to look for new fields of
pease, in which it may couple with its cogeneric insects, and provide
food sufficient for its posterity.

This noxious insect has spread from Pensylvania to the north. For the
country of New York, where it is common at present, has not been
plagued with it above twelve or fifteen years ago; and before that time
the people sowed pease every year without any inconvenience, and had
excellent crops. But by degrees these little enemies came in such
numbers, that the inhabitants were forced to leave off sowing of pease.
The people complained of this in several places. The country people
about Albany have yet the pleasure to see their fields of pease not
infected by these beetles, but are always afraid of their approach; as
it has been observed they come every year nearer to that province.

I know not whether this insect would live in Europe, and I should think
our Swedish winters must kill the worm, even if it be ever so deeply
inclosed in the pea; notwithstanding it is often as cold in New York
(where this insect is so abundant) as in our country, yet it continues
to multiply here every year, and proceeds always farther to the north.
I was very near bringing some of these vermin into Europe, without
knowing of it. At my departure from America, I took some sweet peas
with me in a paper, and they were at that time quite fresh and green.
But on opening the paper after my arrival at Stockholm, on August the
1st. 1751; I found all the peas hollow, and the head of an infect
peeping out of each. Some of these insects even crept out, in order to
try the weather of this new climate; but I made haste, to shut the
paper again, in order to prevent the spreading of this noxious insect.
[28] I own, that when I first perceived them, I was more frightened
than I should have been at the sight of a viper. For I at once had a
full view of the whole damage, which my dear country would have
suffered, if only two or three of these noxious insects had escaped me.
The posterity of many families, and even the inhabitants of whole
provinces, would have had sufficient reason to detest me as the cause
of so great a calamity. I afterwards sent some of them, though well
secured, to count Tessin, and to Dr. Linnæus, together with an account
of their destructive qualities. Dr. Linnæus has already inserted a
description of them in an Academical Dissertation, which has been drawn
up under his presidency, and treats of the damages made by insects.
[29] He there calls this insect the Bruchus of North-America. [30] It
was very peculiar that every pea in the paper was eaten without
exception.

When the inhabitants of Pensylvania sow pease procured from abroad,
they are not commonly attacked by these insects for the first year; but
in the next they take possession of the pea. It is greatly to be wished
that none of the ships which annually depart from New York or
Pensylvania, may bring them into the European countries. From hence the
power of a single despicable insect will plainly appear; as also, that
the study of the œconomy and of the qualities of insects, is not to be
looked upon as a mere pastime and useless employment. [31]

The Rhus radicans is a shrub or tree which grows abundantly in this
country, and has in common with the ivy, called Hedera arborea, the
quality of not growing without the support either of a tree, a wall, or
a hedge. I have seen it climbing to the very top of high trees in the
woods, and its branches shoot out every where little roots, which
fasten upon the tree and as it were enter into it. When the stem is
cut, it emits a pale brown sap of a disagreeable scent. This sap is so
sharp that the letters and characters made upon linnen with it, cannot
be got out again, but grow blacker the more the cloath is washed. Boys
commonly marked their names on their linnen with this juice. If you
write with it on paper, the letters never go out, but grow blacker from
time to time.

This species of Sumach has the same noxious qualities as the poisonous
sumach, or Poison-tree, which I have above described, being poisonous
to some people, though not to every one. Therefore all that has been
said of the poison tree is likewise applicable to this; excepting that
the former has the stronger poison. However I have seen people who have
been as much swelled from the noxious exhalations of the latter, as
they could have been from those of the former. I likewise know that of
two sisters, the one could manage the tree without being affected by
its venom, though the other immediately felt it as soon as the
exhalations of the tree came near her, or when ever she came a yard too
near the tree, and even when she stood in the way of the wind, which
blew directly from this shrub. But upon me this species of sumach has
never exherted its power, though I made above a hundred experiments
upon myself with the greatest stems, and the juice once squirted into
my eye, without doing me any harm. On another person’s hand which I had
covered very thick with it, the skin a few hours after became as hard
as a piece of tanned leather, and peeled off in the following days, as
if little scales fell from it.

October the 10th. In the morning I accompanied Mr. Cock to his country
seat, which is about nine miles from Philadelphia to the north.

Though the woods of Pensylvania afford many oaks, and more species of
them than are found further north, yet they do not build so many ships
in this province as they do in the northern ones, and especially in New
England. But experience has taught the people that the same kind of
trees is more durable the further it grows to the north, and that this
advantage decreases the more it grows in warm climates. It is likewise
plain that the trees in the south grow more every year, and form
thicker ringlets than those in the north. The former have likewise much
greater tubes for the circulation of the sap than the latter. And for
this reason they do not build so many ships in Pensylvania, as they do
in New England, though more than in Virginia and Maryland; but Carolina
builds very few, and its merchants get all their ships from New
England. Those which are here made of the best oak, hardly are
serviceable above ten, or at most twelve years; for then they are so
rotten, that no body ventures to go to sea in them, Many captains of
ships come over from England to North-America, in order to get ships
built. But most of them choose New England, that being the most
northerly province; and if they even come over in ships which are bound
for Philadelphia, they frequently on their arrival set out from
Pensylvania for New England. The Spaniards in the West Indies are said
to build their ships of a peculiar sort of cedar, which holds out
against putrefaction and wet; but it is not to be met with on the
continent in the English provinces. Here are above nine different sorts
of oak, but not one of them is comparable to the single species we have
in Sweden, with regard to its goodness. And therefore a ship of
European oak costs a great deal more than one made of American oak.

Many people who chiefly employed themselves in gardening, had found in
a succession of years, that the red Beet, which grew out of the seed
which was got from New York, became very sweet and had a very fine
taste; but that it every year lost part of its goodness, if it was
cultivated from seeds which were got here. The people were therefore
obliged to get as many seeds of red beet every year from New York, as
were wanted in their gardens. It has likewise been generally observed,
that the plants which are produced from English seeds are always much
better and more agreeable, than those which come from seeds of this
country.

In the garden of Mr. Cock was a raddish which was in the loose soil,
grown so big as to be seven inches in diameter. Every body that saw it,
owned it was uncommon to see them of such a size.

That species of Convolvulus which is commonly called Batatas, has here
the name of Bermudian potatoes. The common people, and the gentry
without distinction planted them in their gardens. This is done in the
same manner as with the common potatoes. Some people made little
hillocks, into which they put these potatoes; but others only planted
them in flat beds. The soil must be a mixture of sand and earth, and
neither too rich, nor too poor. When they are going to plant them, they
cut them, as the common potatoes, taking care however that a bud or two
be left upon each piece which is intended to be planted. Their colour
is commonly red without, and yellow within. They are bigger than the
common sort, and have a sweet and very agreeable taste, which I cannot
find in the other potatoes, in artichokes or in any other root, and
they almost melt in the mouth. It is not long since they have been
planted here. They are dressed in the same manner as common potatoes,
and eaten either along with them, or by themselves. They grow very fast
and very well here; but the greatest difficulty consists in keeping
them over winter, for they will bear neither cold, nor a great heat,
nor wet. They must therefore be kept during winter in a box with sand
in a warm room. In Pensylvania where they have no valves in their
chimnies, they are put in such a box with sand, at some distance from
the fire, and there they are secured both against frost and against
over great heat. It will not answer the purpose to put them into dry
sand in a cellar, as is commonly done with the common sort of potatoes.
For the moisture which is always in cellars, penetrates the sand, and
makes them putrefy. It would probably be very easy to keep them in
Sweden in warm rooms, during the cold season. But the difficulty lies
wholly in bringing them over to Sweden. I carried a considerable number
of them with me on leaving America, and took all possible care in
preserving them. But we had a very violent storm at sea, by which the
ship was so greatly damaged, that the water got in every where, and
wetted our cloaths, beds and other moveables so much, that we could
wring the water out of them. It is therefore no wonder that my Bermuda
potatoes were rotten; but as they are now cultivated in Portugal and
Spain, nay even in England, it will be easy to bring them into Sweden.
The drink which the Spaniards prepare from these potatoes in their
American possessions is not usual in Pensylvania. [32]

Mr. Cock had a paper mill, on a little brook, and all the coarser sorts
of paper are manufactured in it. It is now annually rented for fifty
pounds Pensylvania currency.

October the 11th. I have already mentioned, that every countryman has a
greater or lesser number of apple trees planted round his farm-house,
from whence he gets great quantities of fruit, part of which he sells,
part he makes cyder of, and part he uses in his own family for pyes,
tarts, and the like. However he cannot expect an equal quantity of
fruit every year. And I was told, that this year had not by far
afforded such a great quantity of apples as the preceding; the cause of
which they told me, was the continual and great drought in the month of
May, which had hurt all the blossoms of the apple trees, and made them
wither. The heat had been so great as to dry up all the plants, and the
grass in the fields.

The Polytrichum commune, a species of moss, grew plentifully on wet and
low meadows between the woods, and in several places quite covered
them, as our mosses cover the meadows in Sweden. It was likewise very
plentiful on hills.

Agriculture was in a very bad state hereabouts. When a person had
bought a piece of land, which perhaps had never been ploughed since the
creation, he cut down part of the wood, tore up the roots, ploughed the
ground, sowed corn on it, and the first time got a plentiful crop. But
the same land being tilled for several years successively, without
being manured, it at last must of course lose its fertility. Its
possessor therefore leaves it fallow, and proceeds to another part of
his ground, which he treats in the same manner. Thus he goes on till he
has changed a great part of his possessions into corn-fields, and by
that means deprives the ground of its fertility. He then returns to the
first field, which now is pretty well recovered; this he again tills as
long as it will afford him a good crop, but when its fertility is
exhausted, he leaves it fallow again, and proceeds to the rest as
before.

It being customary here, to let the cattle go about the fields and in
the woods both day and night, the people cannot collect much dung for
manure. But by leaving the land fallow for several years together, a
great quantity of weeds spring up in it, and get such strength, that it
requires a considerable time to extirpate them. From hence it likewise
comes, that the corn is always so much mixed with weeds. The great
richness of the soil, which the first European colonists found here,
and which had never been ploughed before, has given rise to this
neglect of agriculture, which is still observed by many of the
inhabitants. But they do not consider, that when the earth is quite
exhausted, a great space of time, and an infinite deal of labour is
necessary to bring it again into good order; especially in these
countries which are almost every summer so scorched up by the excessive
heat and drought. The soil of the corn-fields consisted of a thin
mould, greatly mixed with a brick coloured clay, and a quantity of
small particles of glimmer. This latter came from the stones which are
here almost every where to be met with at the depth of a foot or
thereabouts. These little pieces of glimmer made the ground sparkle,
when the sun shone upon it.

Almost all the houses hereabouts were built either of stone or bricks;
but those of stone were more numerous. Germantown, which is about two
English miles long, had no other houses, and the country houses
thereabouts, were all built of stone. But there are several varieties
of that stone which is commonly made use of in building. Sometimes it
consisted of a black or grey glimmer, running in undulated veins, the
spaces between their bendings being filled up with a grey, loose,
small-grained limestone, which was easily friable. Some transparent
particles of quartz were scattered in the mass, of which the glimmer
made the greatest part. It was very easy to be cut, and with proper
tools could readily be shaped into any form. Sometimes however the
pieces consisted of a black, small-grained glimmer, a white
small-grained sandstone, and some particles of quartz, and the several
constituent parts were well mixed together. Sometimes the stone had
broad stripes of the white limestone without any addition of glimmer.
But most commonly they were much blended together, and of a grey
colour. Sometimes this stone was found to consist of quite fine and
black pieces of glimmer, and a grey, loose and very small-grained
limestone. This was likewise very easy to be cut, being loose.

These varieties of the stone are commonly found close together. They
were every where to be met with, at a little depth, but not in equal
quantity and goodness; and not always easy to be broken. When therefore
a person intended to build a house, he enquired where the best stone
could be met with. It is to be found on corn-fields and meadows, at a
depth which varies from two to six feet. The pieces were different as
to size. Some were eight or ten feet long, two broad, and one thick.
Sometimes they were still bigger, but frequently much less. Hereabouts
they lay in strata one above another, the thickness of each stratum
being about a foot. The length and breadth were different, but commonly
such as I have before mentioned. They must commonly dig three or four
feet before they reach the first stratum. The loose ground above that
stratum, is full of little pieces of this stone. This ground is the
common brick coloured soil, which is universal here, and consists of
sand and clay, though the former is more plentiful. The loose pieces of
glimmer which shine so much in it, seem to have been broken off from
the great strata of stone.

It must be observed that when the people build with this stone, they
take care to turn the flat side of it outwards. But as that cannot
always be done, the stone being frequently rough on all sides, it is
easily cut smooth with tools, since it is soft, and not very difficult
to be broken. The stones however are unequal in thickness, and
therefore by putting them together they cannot be kept in such straight
lines as bricks. It sometimes likewise happens that pieces break off
when they are cut, and leave holes on the outside of the wall. But in
order to fill up these holes, the little pieces of stone which cannot
be made use of are pounded, mixed with mortar, and put into the holes;
the places thus filled up, are afterwards smoothed, and when they are
dry, they are hardly distinguishable from the rest at some distance. At
last they draw on the outside of the wall, strokes of mortar, which
cross each other perpendicularly, so that it looks as if the wall
consisted wholly of equal, square stones, and as if the white strokes
were the places where they were joined with mortar. The inside of the
wall is made smooth, covered with mortar and whitewashed. It has not
been observed that this kind of stone attracts the moisture in a rainy
or wet season. In Philadelphia and its environs, you find several
houses built of this kind of stone.

The houses here are commonly built in the English manner.

One of Mr. Cock’s negroes showed me the skin of a badger (Ursus Meles)
which he had killed a few days ago, and which convinced me that the
American badger is the same with the Swedish one. It was here called
Ground Hog.

Towards night I returned to Philadelphia.

October the 12th. In the morning we went to the river Skulkill, partly
to gather seeds, partly to collect plants for the herbal, and to make
all sorts of observations. The Skulkill is a narrow river, which falls
into the Delaware, about four miles from Philadelphia to the south; but
narrow as it is, it rises on the west side of those high mountains,
commonly called the blue mountains, and runs two hundred English miles,
and perhaps more. It is a great disadvantage to this country, that
there are several cataracts in this river as low as Philadelphia, for
which reason there can be no navigation on it. To day I made some
descriptions and remarks on such plants as the cattle liked, or such as
they never touched.

I observed several little subterraneous walks in the fields, running
under ground in various directions, the opening of which was big enough
for a mole: the earth, which formed as it were a vault above it, and
lay elevated like a little bank, was near two inches high, full as
broad as a man’s hand, and about two inches thick. In uncultivated
fields I frequently saw these subterraneous walks, which discovered
themselves by the ground thrown up above them, which when trod upon
gave way, and made it inconvenient to walk in the field.

These walks are inhabited by a kind of mole, [33] which I intend to
describe more accurately in another work. Their food is commonly roots:
I have observed the following qualities in one which was caught. It had
greater stiffness and strength in its legs, than I ever observed in
other animals in proportion to their size. Whenever it intended to dig,
it held its legs obliquely, like oars, I laid my handkerchief before
it, and it began to stir in it with the snout, and taking away the
handkerchief to see what it had done to it, I found that in the space
of a minute it had made it full of holes, and it looked as if it had
been pierced very much by an awl. I was obliged to put some books on
the cover of the box in which I kept this animal, or else it was flung
off immediately. It was very irascible, and would bite great holes into
any thing that was put in its way; I held a steel pen-case to it, it at
first bit at it with great violence, but having felt its hardness, it
would not venture again to bite at any thing. These moles do not make
such hills as the European ones, but only such walks as I have already
described.

October the 13th. There is a plant here, from the berries of which they
make a kind of wax or tallow, and for that reason the Swedes call it
the Tallow shrub. The English call the same tree the Candleberry-tree,
or Bayberry-bush; and Dr. Linnæus gives it the name of Myrica cerifera.
It grows abundantly on a wet soil, and it seems to thrive particularly
well in the neighbourhood of the sea, nor have I ever found it high up
in the country far from the sea. The berries grow abundantly on the
female shrub, and look as if flower had been strewed upon them. They
are gathered late in autumn, being ripe about that time, and are then
thrown into a kettle or pot full of boiling water; by this means their
fat melts out, floats at the top of the water and may be skimmed off
into a vessel; with the skimming they go on till there is no tallow
left. The tallow as soon as it is congealed, looks like common tallow
or wax, but has a dirty green colour; it is for that reason melted over
again, and refined, by which means it acquires a fine and pretty
transparent green colour: this tallow is dearer than common tallow, but
cheaper than wax. In Philadelphia they pay a shilling Pensylvania
currency, for a pound of this tallow; but a pound of common tallow only
came to half that money, and wax costs as much again. From this tallow
they make candles in many parts of this province, but they usually mix
some common tallow with it. Candles of this kind, do not easily bend,
nor melt in summer as common candles do; they burn better and slower,
nor do they cause any smoak, but rather yield an agreeable smell, when
they are extinguished. An old Swede of ninety-one years of age told me,
that this sort of candles had formerly been much in use with his
country men. At present they do not make so many candles of this kind,
if they can get the tallow of animals; it being too troublesome to
gather the berries. However these candles are made use of by poor
people, who live in the neighbourhood of a place where the bushes grow,
and have not cattle enough to kill, in order to supply them with a
sufficient quantity of tallow. From the wax of the candleberry tree
they likewise make a soap here, which has an agreeable scent, and is
the best for shaving. This wax is likewise used by doctors, and
surgeons, who reckon it exceeding good for plasters upon wounds. A
merchant of this town once sent a quantity of these candles to those
American provinces which had Roman Catholic inhabitants, thinking he
would be well paid, since wax candles are made use of in the Roman
Catholick churches; but the clergy would not take them. An old Swede
mentioned that the root of the candleberry tree was formerly made use
of by the Indians, as a remedy against the tooth ach, and that he
himself having had the tooth ach very violently, had cut the root in
pieces and applied it round his tooth; and that the pain had been
lessened by it. Another Swede assured me that he had been cured of the
tooth ach, by applying the peel of the root to it. In Carolina, they
not only make candles out of the wax of the berries, but likewise
sealing-wax.

October the 14th. Penny Royal is a plant which has a peculiar strong
scent, and grows abundantly on dry places in the country. Botanists
call it Cunila pulegioides. It is reckoned very wholesome to drink as a
tea when a person has got cold, as it promotes perspiration. I was
likewise told, that on feeling a pain in any limb, this plant, if
applied to it, would give immediate relief.

The goods which are shipped to London from New England are the
following: all sorts of fish caught near Newfoundland and elsewhere;
train-oil of several sorts; whale-bone; tar, pitch, masts; new ships,
of which a great number is annually built; a few hides, and sometimes
some sorts of wood. The English islands in America, as Jamaica and
Barbadoes, get from New England, fish, flesh, butter, cheese, tallow,
horses, cattle; all sorts of lumber, such as pails, buckets, and
hogsheads; and have returns made in rum, sugar, melasses, and other
produces of the country, or in cash, the greatest part of all which
they send to London (the money especially) in payment of the goods
received from thence, and yet all this is inefficient to pay off the
debt.

October the 15th. The Alders grew here in considerable abundance on wet
and low places, and even sometimes on pretty high ones, but never
reached the height of the European alders, and commonly stood like a
bush about a fathom or two high. Mr. Bartram, and other gentlemen who
had frequently travelled in these provinces, told me that the more you
go to the south, the less are the alders, but that they are higher and
taller, the more you advance to the north. I found afterwards myself,
that the alders in some places of Canada, are little inferior to the
Swedish ones. Their bark is employed here in dying red and brown. A
Swedish inhabitant of America, told me that he had cut his leg to the
very bone, and that some coagulated blood had already been settled
within. That he had been advised to boil the alder bark, and to wash
the wound often with the water: that he followed this advice, and had
soon got his leg healed, though it had been very dangerous at first.

The Phytolacca decandra was called Poke by the English. The Swedes had
no particular name for it, but made use of the English, with some
little variation into Paok. When the juice of its berries is put upon
paper or the like, it strikes it with a high purple colour, which is as
fine as any in the world, and it is pity that no method is as yet found
out, of making this colour last on woollen and linen cloth, for it
fades very soon. Mr. Bartram mentioned, that having hit his foot
against a stone, he had got a violent pain in it; he then bethought
himself to put a leaf of the Phytolacca on his foot, by which he lost
the pain in a short time, and got his foot well soon after. The berries
are eaten by the birds about this time. The English and several Swedes
make use of the leaves in spring, when they are just come out, and are
yet tender and soft, and eat them partly as green cale, and partly in
the manner we eat spinnage. Sometimes they likewise prepare them in the
first of these ways, when the stalks are already grown a little longer,
breaking off none but the upper sprouts which are yet tender, and not
woody; but in this latter case, great care is to be taken, for if you
eat the plant when it is already grown up, and its leaves are no longer
soft, you may expect death as a consequence which seldom fails to
follow, for the plant has then got a power of purging the body to
excess. I have known people, who, by eating great full grown leaves of
this plant, have got such a strong dysentery, that they were near dying
with it: its berries however are eaten in autumn by children, without
any ill consequence.

Woollen and linen cloth is dyed yellow with the bark of hiccory. This
likewise is done with the bark of the black oak, or Linnæus’s Quercus
nigra, and that variety of it which Catesby in his Natural History of
Carolina, vol. i. tab. 19. calls Quercus marilandica. The flowers and
leaves of the Impatiens Noli tangere or balsamine, likewise dyed all
woollen stuffs with a fine yellow colour.

The Collinsonia canadensis was frequently found in little woods and
bushes, in a good rich soil. Mr. Bartram who knew the country perfectly
well, was sure that Pensylvania, and all the parts of America in the
same climate, were the true and original places where this plant grows.
For further to the south, neither he nor Messrs. Clayton and Mitchel
ever found it, though the latter gentlemen have made accurate
observations in Virginia and part of Maryland. And from his own
experience he knew, that it did not grow in the northerly parts. I have
never found it more than fifteen min. north of forty-three deg. The
time of the year when it comes up in Pensylvania, is so late, that its
seed has but just time sufficient to ripen in, and it therefore seems
unlikely, that it can succeed further north, Mr. Bartram was the first
who discovered it, and sent it over into Europe. Mr. Jussieu during his
stay at London, and Dr. Linnæus afterwards, called it Collinsonia, from
the celebrated Mr. Peter Collinson, a merchant in London, and fellow of
the English and Swedish Royal Societies. He well deserved the honour of
having a plant called after his name, for there are few people that
have promoted natural history and all useful sciences with a zeal like
his; or that have done as much as he towards collecting, cultivating,
and making known all sorts of plants. The Collinsonia has a peculiar
scent, which is agreeable, but very strong. It always gave me a pretty
violent head-ach whenever I passed by a place where it stood in plenty,
and especially when it was in flower. Mr. Bartram was acquainted with a
better quality of this plant, which was that of being an excellent
remedy against all sorts of pain in the limbs, and against a cold, when
the parts affected are rubbed with it. And Mr. Conrad Weisser,
interpreter of the language of the Indians in Pensylvania, had told him
of a more wonderful cure with this plant. He was once among a company
of Indians, one of which had been stung by a rattle snake, the savages
gave him over, but he boiled the collinsonia, and made the poor wretch
drink the water, from which he happily recovered. Somewhat more to the
north and in New York they call this plant Horseweed, because the
horses eat it in spring, before any other plant comes up.

October the 16th. I asked Mr. Franklin and other gentlemen who were
well acquainted with this country, whether they had met with any signs,
from whence they could have concluded that any place which was now a
part of the continent, had formerly been covered with water? and I got
the following account in answer.

1. On travelling from hence to the south, you meet with a place where
the highroad is very low in the ground between two mountains. On both
sides you see nothing but oyster shells and muscle shells in immense
quantities above each other; however the place is many miles off the
sea.

2. Whenever they dig wells, or build houses in town, they find the
earth lying in several strata above each other. At a depth of fourteen
feet or more, they find globular stones, which are as smooth on the
outside as those which lie on the sea-shore, and are made round and
smooth by the rolling of the waves. And after having dug through the
sand, and reached a depth of eighteen feet or more, they discover in
some places a slime like that which the sea throws up on the shore, and
which commonly lies at its bottom and in rivers; this slime is quite
full of trees, leaves, branches, reed, charcoal, &c.

3. It has sometimes happened that new houses have sunk on one side in a
short time, and have obliged the people to pull them down again. On
digging deeper, for a very hard ground to build upon, they have found a
quantity of the above slime, wood, roots, &c.

Are not these reasons sufficient to make one suppose that those places
in Philadelphia which are at present fourteen feet and more under
ground, formerly were the bottom of the sea, and that by several
accidents, sand, earth, and other things were carried upon it? or, that
the Delaware formerly was broader than it is at present? or, that it
has changed its course? This last still often happens at present; the
river breaking off the bank on one side, and forming one on the other.
Both the Swedes and English often shewed me such places.

October the 18th. At present I did not find above ten different kinds
of plants in blossom: they were, a Gentiana, two species of Aster, the
common Golden Rod, or Solidago Virga aurea, a species of Hieracium, the
yellow wood Sorrel, or Oxalis corniculata, the Fox Gloves, or Digitalis
purpurea, the Hamamelis Virginiana, or Witch Hazel, our common
Millefoil, or Achillæa Millefolium, and our Dandelion, or Leontodon
Taraxacum. All other plants had for this year laid aside their gay
colours. Several trees, especially those which were to flower early in
spring, had already formed such large buds, that on opening them all
the parts of fructification, such as Calyx, Corolla, Stamina and
Pistillum were plainly distinguishable. It was therefore easy to
determine the genus to which such trees belonged. Such were the red
maple, or Acer rubrum, and the Laurus æstivalis, a species of bay. Thus
nature prepared to bring forth flowers, with the first mild weather in
the next year. The buds were at present quite hard, and all their parts
pressed close together, that the cold might by all means be excluded.

The black Walnut trees had for the greatest part dropt their leaves,
and many of them were entirely without them. The walnuts themselves
were already fallen off. The green peel which enclosed them, if
frequently handled, would yield a black colour, which could not be got
off the fingers in two or three weeks time, though the hands were
washed ever so much.

The Cornus florida was called Dogwood by the English, and grew
abundantly in the woods. It looks beautiful when it is adorned with its
numerous great white flowers in spring. The wood is very hard, and is
therefore made use of for weaver’s spools, joiner’s planes, wedges, &c.
When the cattle fall down in spring for want of strength, the people
tie a branch of this tree on their neck, thinking it will help them.

October the 19th. The Tulip tree grows every where in the woods of this
country. The botanists call it Liriodendron tulipifera, because its
flowers both in respect to their size, and in respect to their exterior
form, and even in some measure with regard to their colour, resemble
tulips. The Swedes called it Canoe tree, for both the Indians and the
Europeans often make their canoes of the stem of this tree. The
Englishmen in Pensylvania give it the name of Poplar. It is reckoned a
tree which grows to the greatest height and thickness of any in North
America, and which vies in that point with our greatest European trees.
The white oak and the fir in North America, however are little inferior
to it. It cannot therefore but be very agreeable to see in spring, at
the end of May (when it is in blossom) one of the greatest trees
covered for a fortnight together with flowers, which with regard to
their shape, size, and partly colour are like tulips, the leaves have
likewise something peculiar, the English therefore in some places call
the tree the old woman’s smock, because their imagination finds
something like it below the leaves.

Its wood is here made use of for canoes, boards, planks, bowls, dishes,
spoons, door posts, and all sorts of joiners work. I have seen a barn
of a considerable size whose walls, and roof were made of a single tree
of this kind, split into boards. Some joiners reckoned this wood better
than oak, because this latter frequently is warped, which the other
never does, but works very easy; others again valued it very little. It
is certain, that it contracts so much in hot weather, as to occasion
great cracks in the boards, and in wet weather it swells so as to be
near bursting, and the people hardly know of a wood in these parts
which varies so much in contracting and expanding itself. The joiners
however make much use of it in their work, they say there are two
species of it; but they are merely two varieties, one of which in time
turns yellow within, the other is white, the former is said to have a
looser texture. The bark (like Russia glass) is divisible into very
thin leaves, which are very tough like bast, though I have never seen
it employed as such. The leaves when crushed and applied to the
forehead are said to be a remedy against the head ach. When horses are
plagued with worms, the bark is pounded, and given them quite dry. Many
people believe its roots to be as efficacious against the fever as the
jesuits bark. The trees grow in all sorts of dry soil, both on high and
low grounds, but too wet a soil will not agree with them.

October the 20th. The Beaver tree is to be met with in several parts of
Pensylvania and New Jersey, in a poor swampy soil, or on wet meadows.
Dr. Linnæus calls it Magnolia glauca; both the Swedes and English call
it Beaver tree, because the root of this tree is the dainty of beavers,
which are caught by its means, however the Swedes sometimes gave it a
different name, and the English as improperly called it Swamp
Sassafras, and White Laurel. The trees of this kind dropt their leaves
early in autumn, though some of the young trees kept them all the
winter. I have seldom found the beaver tree to the north of
Pensylvania, where it begins to flower about the end of May. The scent
of its blossoms is excellent, for by it you can discover within three
quarters of an English mile, whether these little trees stand in the
neighbourhood, provided the wind be not against it. For the whole air
is filled with this sweet and pleasant scent. It is beyond description
agreeable to travel in the woods about that time, especially towards
night. They retain their flowers for three weeks and even longer,
according to the quality of the soil on which the trees stand; and
during the whole time of their being in blossom, they spread their
odoriferous exhalations. The berries likewise look very fine when they
are ripe, for they have a rich red colour, and hang in bunches on
slender stalks. The cough, and other pectoral diseases are cured by
putting the berries into rum or brandy, of which a draught every
morning may be taken; the virtues of this remedy were universally
extolled, and even praised for their salutary effects in consumptions.
The bark being put into brandy, or boiled in any other liquor, is said
not only to ease pectoral diseases, but likewise to be of some service
against all internal pains and heat; and it was thought that a
decoction of it could stop the dysentery. Persons who had caught cold,
boiled the branches of the beaver tree in water, and drank it to their
great relief. A Swede, called Lars Lack, gave the following account of
a cure effected by this tree: One of his relations, an old man, had an
open sore in his leg, which would not heal up again, though he had had
much advice and used many remedies. An Indian at last effected the cure
in the following manner. He burnt some of this wood to charcoal, which
he reduced to powder, mixed with the fresh fat of pork, and rubbed the
open places several times. This dried up the holes, which before were
continually open, and the legs of the old man were quite sound to his
death. The wood is likewise made use of for joiner’s planes.

October the 22d. Upon trial it has been found that the following
animals and birds, which are wild in the woods of North America, can be
made nearly as tractable as domestic animals.

The wild Cows and Oxen, of which several people of distinction have got
young calves from these wild cows, which are to be met with in
Carolina, and other provinces to the south of Pensylvania, and brought
them up among the tame cattle; when grown up, they were perfectly tame,
but at the same time very unruly, so that there was no enclosure strong
enough to resist them, if they had a mind to break through it; for as
they possess a great strength in their neck, it was easy for them to
overthrow the pales with their horns, and to get into the corn-fields;
and as soon as they had made a road, all the tame cattle followed them;
they likewise copulated with the latter, and by that means generated as
it were a new breed. This American species of oxen is Linnæus’s Bos
Bison, β.

American Deer, can likewise be tamed; and I have seen them tame myself
in different places. A farmer in New Jersey had one in his possession,
which he had caught when it was very young; and at present it was so
tame, that in the day time it run into the wood for its food, and
towards night it returned home, and frequently brought a wild deer out
of the wood, giving its master an opportunity to shoot it. Several
people have therefore tamed young deer, and make use of them for
hunting wild deer, or for decoying them home, especially in the time of
their rutting.

Beavers have been so tamed that they have gone on fishing, and brought
home what they had caught to their masters. This often is the case with
Otters, of which I have seen some, which were as tame as dogs, and
followed their masters wherever they went; if he went out in a boat,
the otter went with him, jumped into the water, and after a while came
up with a fish. The Opossum, can likewise be tamed, so as to follow
people like a dog.

The Raccoon which we (Swedes) call Siupp, can in time be made so tame
as to run about the streets like a domestic animal; but it is
impossible to make it leave off its habit of stealing. In the dark it
creeps to the poultry, and kills in one night a whole flock. Sugar and
other sweet things must be carefully hidden from it, for if the chests
and boxes are not always locked up, it gets into them, eats the sugar,
and licks up the treacle with its paws: the ladies therefore have every
day some complaint against it, and for this reason many people rather
forbear the diversion which this ape-like animal affords.

The grey and flying Squirrels are so tamed by the boys, that they sit
on their shoulders, and follow them every where.

The Turkey Cocks and Hens run about in the woods of this country, and
differ in nothing from our tame ones, except in their superior size,
and redder, though more palatable flesh. When their eggs are found in
the wood, and put under tame Turkey hens, the young ones become tame;
however when they grow up, it sometimes happens that they fly away;
their wings are therefore commonly clipped, especially when young. But
the tamed turkeys are commonly much more irascible, than those which
are naturally tame. The Indians likewise employ themselves in taming
them and keeping them near their huts.

Wild Geese have likewise been tamed in the following manner. When the
wild geese first come hither in spring, and stop a little while (for
they do not breed in Pensylvania) the people try to shoot them in the
wing, which however is generally mere chance. They then row to the
place where the wild goose fell, catch it, and keep it for some time at
home, by this means many of them have been made so tame, that when they
were let out in the morning, they returned in the evening, but to be
more sure of them, their wings are commonly clipped. I have seen wild
geese of this kind, which the owner assured me, that he had kept for
more than twelve years; but though he kept eight of them, yet he never
had the pleasure to see them copulate with the tame ones, or lay eggs.

Partridges, which are here in abundance, may likewise be so far tamed,
as to run about all day with the poultry, and to come along with them
to be fed when they are called. In the same manner I have seen wild
Pigeons, which were made so tame as to fly out and return again. In
some winters there are immense quantities of wild pigeons in
Pensylvania.

October the 24th. Of all the rare birds of North America, the Humming
bird is the most admirable, or at least most worthy of peculiar
attention. Several reasons induce me to believe that few parts of the
world can produce its equal. Dr. Linnæus calls it Trochilus Colubris.
The Swedes and some Englishmen call it the King’s bird, but the name of
Humming bird is more common. Catesby in his Natural History of
Carolina, Vol. i. page 65, tab. 65. has drawn it, in its natural size,
with its proper colours, and added a description of it. [34] In size it
is not much bigger than a large humble bee, and is therefore the least
of all birds, [35] or it is much if there is a lesser species in the
world. Its plumage is most beautifully coloured, most of its feathers
being green, some grey, and others forming a shining red ring round its
neck; the tail glows with fine feathers, changing from green into a
brass colour. These birds come here in spring about the time when it
begins to grow very warm, and make their nests in summer, but towards
autumn they retreat again into the more southern countries of America.
They subsist barely upon the nectar, or sweet juice of flowers
contained in that part, which botanists call the nectarium, and which
they suck up with their long bills. Of all the flowers, they like those
most, which have a long tube, and I have observed that they have
fluttered chiefly about the Impatiens Noli tangere, and the Monarda
with crimson flowers. An inhabitant of the country is sure to have a
number of these beautiful and agreeable little birds before his window
all the summer long, if he takes care to plant a bed with all sorts of
fine flowers under them. It is indeed a diverting spectacle to see
these little active creatures flying about the flowers like bees, and
sucking their juices with their long and narrow bills. The flowers of
the above-mentioned Monarda grow verticillated, that is, at different
distances they surround the stalk, as the flowers of our mint (Mentha)
bastard hemp (Galeopsis) mother-wort (Leonurus) and dead nettle
(Lamium). It is therefore diverting to see them putting their bills
into every flower in the circle. As soon as they have sucked the juice
of one flower, they flutter to the next. One that has not seen them
would hardly believe in how short a space of time they have had their
tongues in all the flowers of a plant, which when large and with a long
tube, the little bird by putting its head into them, looks as if it
crept with half its body into them.

During their sucking the juice out of the flowers they never settle on
it, but flutter continually like bees, bend their feet backwards, and
move their wings so quick, that they are hardly visible. During this
fluttering they make a humming like bees, or like that which is
occasioned by the turning of a little wheel. After they have thus,
without resting, fluttered for a while, they fly to a neighbouring tree
or post, and resume their vigour again. They then return to their
humming and sucking. They are not very shy, and I in company with
several other people, have not been full two yards from the place where
they fluttered about and sucked the flowers; and though we spoke and
moved, yet they were no ways disturbed; but on going towards them, they
would fly off with the swiftness of an arrow. When several of them were
on the same bed, there was always a violent combat between them, in
meeting each other at the same flower (for envy was likewise
predominant amongst these little creatures) and they attacked with such
impetuosity, that it would seem as if the strongest would pierce its
antagonist through and through, with its long bill. During the fight,
they seem to stand in the air, keeping themselves up, by the incredibly
swift motion of their wings. When the windows towards the garden are
open, they pursue each other into the rooms, fight a little, and
flutter away again. Sometimes they come to a flower which is withering,
and has no more juice in it; they then in a fit of anger pluck it off,
and throw it on the ground, that it may not mislead them for the
future. If a garden contains a great number of these little birds, they
are seen to pluck off the flowers in such quantities, that the ground
is quite covered with them, and it seems as if this proceeded from a
motion of envy.

Commonly you hear no other sound than their humming, but when they fly
against each other in the air, they make a chirping noise like a
sparrow or chicken. I have sometimes walked with several other people
in small gardens, and these birds have on all sides fluttered about us,
without appearing very shy. They are so small that one would easily
mistake them for great humming-bees or butterflies, and their flight
resembles that of the former, and is incredibly swift. They have never
been observed to feed on insects or fruit; the nectar of flowers, seems
therefore to be their only food. Several people have caught some
humming birds on account of their singular beauty, and have put them
into cages, where they died for want of a proper food. However Mr.
Bartram has kept a couple of them for several weeks together, by
feeding them with water in which sugar had been dissolved, and I am of
opinion that it would not be difficult to keep them all winter in a
hot-house.

The humming bird always builds its nest in the middle of a branch of a
tree, and it is so small, that it cannot be seen from the ground, but
he who intends to see it must get up to the branch. For this reason it
is looked upon as a great rarity if a nest is accidentally found,
especially as the trees in summer have so thick a foliage. The nest is
likewise the least of all; that which is in my possession is quite
round, and consists in the inside of a brownish and quite soft down,
which seems to have been collected from the leaves of the great mullein
or Verbascum Thapsus, which are often found covered with a soft wool of
this colour, and the plant is plentiful here. The outside of the nest
has a coating of green moss, such as is common on old pales or
enclosures and on trees; the inner diameter of the nest is hardly a
geometrical inch at the top, and its depth half an inch. It is however
known that the humming birds make their nests likewise of flax, hemp,
moss, hair and other such soft materials; they are said to lay two
eggs, each of the size of a pea.

October the 25th. I employed this day and the next in packing up all
the seeds gathered this autumn, for I had an opportunity of sending
them to England by the ships which sailed about this time. From England
they were forwarded to Sweden.

October the 27th. In the morning I set out on a little journey to New
York, in company with Mr. Peter Cock, with a view to see the country,
and to enquire into the safest road, which I could take in going to
Canada, through the desart or uninhabited country between it and the
English provinces.

That part where we travelled at present was pretty well inhabited on
both sides of the road, by Englishmen, Germans and other Europeans.
Plains and hills of different dimensions were seen alternately,
mountains and stones, I never saw, excepting a few pebbles. Near almost
every farm was a great orchard with peach and apple trees, some of
which were yet loaded with fruit.

The enclosures were in some parts low enough, for the cattle to leap
over them with ease; to prevent this the hogs had a triangular wooden
yoke: this custom was as I have already observed, common over all the
English plantations. To the horses neck was fastened a piece of wood,
which at the lower end had a tooth or hook, fastening in the enclosure,
and stopping the horse, just when it lifted its fore feet to leap over;
but I know not whether this be a good invention with regard to horses.
They were likewise kept in bounds by a piece of wood, one end of which
was fastened to one of the fore feet, and the other to one of the hind
feet, and it forced them to walk pretty slowly, as at the same time it
made it impossible for them to leap over the enclosures. To me it
appeared that the horses were subject to all sorts of dangerous
accidents from this piece of wood.

Near New Frankfurt we rode over a little stone bridge, and somewhat
further, eight or nine English miles from Philadelphia we passed over
another, which was likewise of stone. There are not yet any milestones
put up in the country, and the inhabitants only compute the distances
by guess. We were afterwards brought over a river in a ferry, where we
paid threepence a person, for ourselves and our horses.

At one of the places where we stopt to have our horses fed, the people
had a Mocking-bird in a cage; and it is here reckoned the best singing
bird, though its plumage be very simple, and not showy at all. At this
time of the year it does not sing. Linnæus calls it Turdus polyglottos,
and Catesby in his Natural History of Carolina, Vol. 1. p. 27. tab. 27,
has likewise described and drawn this bird. The people said that it
built its nests in the bushes and trees, but is so shy, that if any
body come and look at its eggs, it leaves the nest, never to come to it
again. Its young ones require great care in being bred up. If they are
taken from their mother and put into a cage, she feeds them for three
or four days; but seeing no hopes of setting them at liberty, she flies
away. It then often happens, that the young ones die soon after,
doubtless because they cannot accustom themselves to eat what the
people give them. But it is generally imagined, that the last time the
mother feeds them, she finds means to poison them, in order, the sooner
to deliver them from slavery and wretchedness. These birds stay all
summer in the colonies, but retire in autumn to the south, and stay
away all winter. They have got the name of Mocking-birds, on account of
their skill in imitating the note of almost every bird they hear. The
song peculiar to them is excellent, and varied by an infinite change of
notes and melody; several people are therefore of opinion, that they
are the best singing birds in the world. So much is certain, that few
birds come up to them; this is what makes them precious: the Swedes
call it by the same name as the English.

About noon we came to New Bristol, a small town in Pensylvania, on the
banks of the Delaware, about fifteen English miles from Philadelphia.
Most of the houses are built of stone, and stand asunder. The
inhabitants carry on a small trade, though most of them get their goods
from Philadelphia. On the other side of the river, almost directly
opposite to New Bristol, lies the town of Burlington, in which the
governor of New Jersey resides.

We had now country seats on both sides of the roads. Now we came into a
lane enclosed with pales on both sides, including pretty great
corn-fields. Next followed a wood, and we perceived for the space of
four English miles nothing but woods, and a very poor soil, on which
the Lupinus perennis grew plentifully and succeeded well. I was
overjoyed to see a plant come on so well in these poor dry places, and
even began to meditate, how to improve this discovery in a soil like
that which it inhabited. But I afterwards had the mortification to find
that the horses and cows eat almost all the other plants, but left the
lupine, which was however very green, looked very fresh, and was
extremely soft to the touch. Perhaps means may be found out of making
this plant palatable to the cattle. In the evening we arrived at
Trenton, after having previously passed the Delaware in a ferry.

October the 28th. Trenton is a long narrow town, situate at some
distance from the river Delaware, on a sandy plain; it belongs to New
Jersey, and they reckon it thirty miles from Philadelphia. It has two
small churches, one for the people belonging to the church of England,
the other for the presbyterians. The houses are partly built of stone,
though most of them are made of wood or planks, commonly two stories
high, together with a cellar below the building, and a kitchen under
ground, close to the cellar. The houses stand at a moderate distance
from one another. They are commonly built so, that the street passes
along one side of the houses, while gardens of different dimensions
bound the other side; in each garden is a draw-well; the place is
reckoned very healthy. Our landlord told us, that twenty-two years ago,
when he first settled here, there was hardly more than one house; but
from that time Trenton has encreased so much, that there are at present
near a hundred houses. The houses were within divided into several
rooms by their partitions of boards. The inhabitants of the place
carried on a small trade with the goods which they got from
Philadelphia, but their chief gain consisted in the arrival of the
numerous travellers between that city and New York; for they are
commonly brought by the Trenton Yachts from Philadelphia to Trenton, or
from thence to Philadelphia. But from Trenton further to New Brunswick,
the travellers go in the waggons which set out every day for that
place. Several of the inhabitants however likewise subsist on the
carriage for all sorts of goods, which are every day sent in great
quantities, either from Philadelphia to New York, or from thence to the
former place; for between Philadelphia and Trenton all goods go by
water, but between Trenton and New Brunswick they are all carried by
land, and both these conveniences belong to people of this town.

For the yachts which go between this place and the capital of
Pensylvania, they usually pay a shilling and six-pence of Pensylvania
currency per person, and every one pays besides for his baggage. Every
passenger must provide meat and drink for himself, or pay some settled
fare: between Trenton and New Brunswick a person pays two shillings and
sixpence, and the baggage is likewise paid for separately.

We continued our journey in the morning; the country through which we
passed was for the greatest part level, though sometimes there were
some long hills, some parts were covered with trees, but far the
greater part of the country was without woods; on the other hand I
never saw any place in America, the towns excepted, so well peopled. An
old man, who lived in this neighbourhood and accompanied us for some
part of the road, however assured me, that he could well remember the
time, when between Trenton and New Brunswick there were not above three
farms, and he reckoned it was about fifty and some odd years ago.
During the greater part of the day we had very extensive corn-fields on
both sides of the road, and commonly towards the south the country had
a great declivity. Near almost every farm was a spacious orchard full
of peaches and apple trees, and in some of them the fruit was fallen
from the trees in such quantities, as to cover nearly the whole
surface. Part of it they left to rot, since they could not take it all
in and consume it. Wherever we passed by we were always welcome to go
into the fine orchards, and gather our hats and pockets full of the
choicest fruit, without the possessor’s so much as looking after it.
Cherry trees were planted near the farms, on the roads, &c.

The barns [36] had a peculiar kind of construction hereabouts, which I
will give a concise description of. The whole building was very great,
so as almost to equal a small church; the roof was pretty high, covered
with wooden shingles, declining on both sides, but not steep: the walls
which support it, were not much higher than a full grown man; but on
the other hand the breadth of the building was the more considerable:
in the middle was the threshing floor, and above it, or in the loft or
garret they put the corn which was not yet threshed, the straw, or any
thing else, according to the season: on one side were stables for the
horses, and on the other for the cows. And the small cattle had
likewise their particular stables or styes; on both ends of the
buildings were great gates, so that one could come in with a cart and
horses through one of them, and go out at the other: here was therefore
under one roof the threshing floor, the barn, the stables, the hay
loft, the coach house, &c. This kind of buildings is chiefly made use
of by the Dutch and Germans; for it is to be observed that the country
between Trenton and New York, is inhabited by few Englishmen, but
instead of them by Germans or Dutch, [37] the latter of which
especially are numerous.

Before I proceed, I find it necessary to remark one thing with regard
to the Indians, or old Americans. For this account may perhaps meet
with readers, who, like many people of my acquaintance, may be of
opinion that all North America, was almost wholly inhabited by savage
or heathen nations, and they may be astonished, that I do not mention
them more frequently in my account. Others may perhaps imagine, that
when I mention in my journal, that the country is much cultivated, that
in several places, houses of stone or wood are built, round which are
corn-fields, gardens, and orchards, that I am speaking of the property
of the Indians; to undeceive them, I here give the following
explication. The country especially all along the coasts, in the
English colonies, is inhabited by Europeans, who in some places are
already so numerous, that few parts of Europe are more populous. The
Indians have sold the country to the Europeans, and have retired
further up: in most parts you may travel twenty Swedish miles, or about
a hundred and twenty English miles, from the sea shore, before you
reach the first habitations of the Indians. And it is very possible for
a person to have been at Philadelphia and other towns on the sea shore
for half a year together, without so much as seeing an Indian. I intend
in the sequel to give a more circumstantial account of them, their
religion, manners, oeconomy, and other particulars relating to them: at
present I return to the sequel of my journal.

About nine English miles from Trenton, the ground began to change its
colour; hitherto it consisted of a considerable quantity of hazel
coloured clay, but at present the earth was a reddish brown, so that it
sometimes had a purple colour, and sometimes looked like logwood. This
colour came from a red limestone which approached very near to that
which is on the mountain Kinnekulle in West Gothland, and makes a
particular stratum in the rock. The American red limestone therefore
seems to be merely a variety of that I saw in Sweden, it lay in strata
of two or three fingers thickness; but was divisible into many thinner
plates or shivers, whose surface was seldom flat and smooth, but
commonly rough: the strata themselves were frequently cut off by
horizontal cracks. When these stones were exposed to the air, they by
degrees shivered and withered into pieces, and at last turned into
dust. The people of this neighbourhood did not know how to make any use
of it; the soil above is sometimes rich and sometimes poor: in such
places where the people had lately dug new wells, I perceived, that
most of the rubbish which was thrown up consisted of such a species of
stone. This reddish brown earth we always saw till near New Brunswick,
where it is particularly plentiful. The banks of the river, shewed in
many places nothing but strata of Limestone, which did not run
horizontally, but dipped very much.

About ten o’clock in the morning we came to Prince-town, which is
situated in a plain. Most of the houses are built of wood, and are not
contiguous, so that there are gardens and pastures between them. As
these parts were sooner inhabited by Europeans than Pensylvania, the
woods were likewise more cut away, and the country more cultivated, so
that one might have imagined himself to be in Europe.

We now thought of continuing our journey, but as it began to rain very
heavily, and continued so during the whole day and part of the night,
we were forced to stay till next morning,

October the 29th. This morning we proceeded on our journey. The country
was pretty well peopled; however there were yet great woods in many
places: they all consisted of deciduous trees: and I did not perceive a
single tree of the fir kind, till I came to New Brunswick. The ground
was level, and did not seem to be every where of the richest kind. In
some places it had hillocks, losing themselves almost imperceptibly in
the plains, which were commonly crossed by a rivulet. Almost near every
farm-house were great orchards. The houses were commonly built of
timber, and at some distance by themselves stood the ovens for baking,
consisting commonly of clay.

On a hill covered with trees, and called Rockhill, I saw several pieces
of stone or rock, so big, that they would have required three men to
roll them down. But besides these there were few great stories in the
country; for most of those which we saw, could easily be lifted up by a
single man. In another place we perceived a number of little round
pebbles, but we did not meet with either mountains or rocks.

About noon we arrived at New Brunswick, a pretty little town in the
province of New Jersey, in a valley on the west side of the river
Rareton; on account of its low situation, it cannot be seen (coming
from Pensylvania) before you get to the top of the hill, which is quite
close up to it: the town extends north and south along the river. The
German inhabitants have two churches, one of stone and the other of
wood; the English church is of the latter kind, but the presbyterians
were building one of stone: the town house makes likewise a pretty good
appearance. Some of the other houses are built of bricks, but most of
them are made either wholly of wood, or of bricks and wood; the wooden
houses are not made of strong timber, but merely of boards or planks,
which are within joined by laths: such houses as consist of both wood
and bricks, have only the wall towards the street of bricks, all the
other sides being merely of planks. This peculiar kind of ostentation
would easily lead a traveller, who passes through the town in haste, to
believe that most of the houses are built of bricks. The houses were
covered with shingles; before each door there was an elevation, to
which you ascend by some steps from the street; it resembled a small
balcony, and had some benches on both sides, on which the people sat in
the evening, in order to enjoy the fresh air, and to have the pleasure
of viewing those who passed by. The town has only one street
lengthways, and at its northern extremity there is a street across;
both of these are of a considerable length.

The river Rareton passes hard by the town, and is deep enough for great
yachts to come up; its breadth near the town is within the reach of a
common gun shot; the tide comes up several miles beyond the town, the
yachts were placed lengthways along the bridge; the river has very high
and pretty steep banks on both sides, but near the town there are no
such banks, it being situated in a low valley. One of the streets is
almost entirely inhabited by Dutchmen, who came hither from Albany, and
for that reason they call it Albany street: these Dutch people only
keep company among themselves, and seldom or never go amongst the other
inhabitants, living as it were quite separate from them. New Brunswick
belongs to New Jersey; however the greatest part, or rather all its
trade is to New York, which is about forty English miles distant; to
that place they send corn, flour in great quantities, bread, several
other necessaries, a great quantity of linseed, boards timber, wooden
vessels, and all sorts of carpenters work. Several small yachts are
every day going backwards and forwards between these two towns. The
inhabitants likewise get a considerable profit from the travellers, who
every hour pass through, on the high road.

The steep banks consist of the red limestone, which I have before
described. It is here plainly visible that the strata are not
horizontal, but considerably dipping, especially towards the south. The
weather and the air has in a great measure dissolved the stone here: I
enquired, whether it could not be made use of, but was assured, that in
building houses it was entirely useless; for, though it is hard and
permanent under ground, yet on being dug out, and exposed for some time
to the air, it first crumbles into greater, then into lesser pieces,
and at last is converted into dust. An inhabitant of this town, however
tried to build a house with this sort of stone, but its outsides being
exposed to the air, soon began to change so much, that the owner was
obliged to put boards all over the wall, to preserve it from falling to
pieces. The people however pretend that this stone is a very good
manure, if it is scattered upon the corn-fields in its rubbish state,
for it is said to stifle the weeds: it is therefore made use of both on
the fields and in gardens. [38]

Towards the evening we continued our journey, and were ferried over the
river Rareton, together with our horses. In a very dry summer, and when
the tide has ebbed, it is by no means dangerous to ride through this
river. On the opposite shore the red juniper tree was pretty abundant.
The country through which we now passed was pretty well inhabited, but
in most places full of small pebbles.

We saw Guinea Hens in many places where we passed by. They sometimes
run about the fields, at a good distance from the farm-houses.

About eight English miles from New Brunswick, the road divided. We took
that on the left, for that on the right leads to Amboy, the chief
sea-town in New Jersey. The country now made a charming appearance;
some parts being high, others forming vallies, and all of them well
cultivated. From the hills you had a prospect of houses, farms,
gardens, corn-fields, forests, lakes, islands, roads, and pastures.

In most of the places where we travelled this day the colour of the
ground was reddish. I make no doubt, but there were strata of the
before-mentioned red limestone under it. Sometimes the ground looked
very like a cinnabar ore.

Wood-bridge is a small village in a plain, consisting of a few houses:
we stopped here to rest our horses a little. The houses were most of
them built of boards; the walls had a covering of shingles on the
outside; these shingles were round at one end, and all of a length in
each row: some of the houses had an Italian roof, but the greatest part
had roofs with pediments; most of them were covered with shingles. In
most places we met with wells and buckets to draw up the water.

Elizabeth-town is a small town, about twenty English miles distant from
New Brunswick: we arrived there immediately after sun setting. Its
houses are mostly scattered, but well built, and generally of boards,
with a roof of shingles, and walls covered with the same. There were
likewise some stone buildings. A little rivulet passes through the town
from west to east; it is almost reduced to nothing when the water ebbs
away, but with the full tide they can bring up small yachts. Here were
two fine churches, each of which made a much better appearance than any
one in Philadelphia. That belonging to the people of the church of
England was built of bricks, had a steeple with bells, and a balustrade
round it, from which there was a prospect of the country. The meeting
house of the presbyterians was built of wood, but had both a steeple
and bells, and was, like the other houses covered with shingles. The
town house made likewise a good appearance, and had a spire with a
bell. The banks of the river were red, from the reddish limestone; both
in and about the town were many gardens and orchards, and it might
truly be said that Elizabeth-town was situated in a garden; the ground
hereabouts being even and well cultivated.

The geese, in some of the places by which we passed this day and the
next, carried three or four little sticks, of the length of a foot
about their necks; they were fastened crossways, to prevent them from
creeping through half broken enclosures. They look extremely awkward,
and it is very diverting to see them in this attire.

At night we took up our lodgings at Elizabeth-town Point, an inn about
two English miles distant from the town, and the last house on this
road belonging to New Jersey. The man who had taken the lease of it,
together with that of the ferry near it, told us that he paid a hundred
and ten pounds of Pensylvania currency to the owner.

October the 30th. We were ready to proceed on our journey at
sun-rising. Near the inn where we had passed the night, we were to
cross a river, and we were brought over, together with our horses, in a
wretched half rotten ferry. This river came a considerable way out of
the country, and small vessels could easily sail up it. This was a
great advantage to the inhabitants of the neighbouring country, giving
them an opportunity of sending their goods to New York with great ease;
and they even made use of it for trading to the West Indies. The
country was low on both sides of the river, and consisted of meadows.
But there was no other hay to be got, than such as commonly grows in
swampy grounds; for as the tide comes up in this river, these low
plains were sometimes overflowed when the water was high. The people
hereabouts are said to be troubled in summer with immense swarms of
gnats or musquetoes, which sting them and their cattle. This was
ascribed to the low swampy meadows, on which these insects deposite
their eggs, which are afterwards hatched by the heat.

As soon as we had got over the river, we were upon Staten Island, which
is quite surrounded with salt water. This is the beginning of the
province of New York. Most of the people settled here were Dutchmen, or
such as came hither whilst the Dutch were yet in possession of this
place. But at present they were scattered among the English and other
European inhabitants, and spoke English for the greatest part. The
prospect of the country here is extremely pleasing, as it is not so
much intercepted by woods, but offers more cultivated fields to view.
Hills and vallies still continued, as usual, to change alternately.

The farms were near each other. Most of the houses were wooden; however
some were built of stone. Near every farm-house was an orchard with
apple trees: the fruit was already for the greatest part gathered.
Here, and on the whole journey before, I observed a press for cyder at
every farm-house, made in different manners, by which the people had
already pressed the juice out of the apples, or were just busied with
that work. Some people made use of a wheel made of thick oak planks,
which turned upon a wooden axis by means of a horse drawing it, much in
the same manner as the people do with woad; [39] except that here the
wheel runs upon planks. Cherry trees stood along the enclosures round
corn-fields.

The corn-fields were excellently situated, and either sown with wheat
or rye. They had no ditches on their sides, but (as is usual in
England) only furrows, drawn at greater or lesser distances from each
other.

In one place we observed a water mill, so situated, that when the tide
flowed, the water ran into a pond: but when it ebbed, the floodgate was
drawn up, and the mill driven by the water, flowing out of the pond.

About eight o’clock in the morning we arrived at the place where we
were to cross the water, in order to come to the town of New York. We
left our horses here and went on board the yacht: we were to go eight
English miles by sea; however we landed about eleven o’clock in the
morning at New York. We saw a kind of wild ducks in immense quantities
upon the water: the people called them Blue bills, and they seemed to
be the same with our Pintail ducks, or Linnæus’s Anas acuta: but they
were very shy. On the shore of the continent we saw some very fine
sloping corn-fields, which at present looked quite green, the corn
being already come up. We saw many boats in which the fishermen were
busy catching oysters: to this purpose they make use of a kind of rakes
with long iron teeth bent inwards; these they used either singly or two
tied together in such a manner, that the teeth were turned towards each
other.

October the 31st. About New York they find innumerable quantities of
excellent oysters, and there are few places which have oysters of such
an exquisite taste, and of so great a size: they are pickled and sent
to the West Indies and other places; which is done in the following
manner. As soon as the oysters are caught, their shells are opened, and
the fish washed clean; some water is then poured into a pot, the
oysters are put into it, and they must boil for a while; the pot is
then taken off from the fire again, the oysters taken out and put upon
a dish, till they are somewhat dry: then you take some mace, allspice,
black pepper, and as much vinegar as you think is sufficient to give a
sourish taste. All this is mixed with half the liquor in which the
oysters were boiled, and put over the fire again. While you boil it
great care is to be taken in scumming off the thick scum; at last the
whole pickle is poured into a glass or earthen vessel, the oysters are
put to it, and the vessel is well stopped to keep out the air. In this
manner, oysters will keep for years together, and may be sent to the
most distant parts of the world.

The merchants here buy up great quantities of oysters about this time,
pickle them in the above-mentioned manner, and send them to the West
Indies: by which they frequently make a considerable profit: for, the
oysters, which cost them five shillings of their currency, they
commonly sell for a pistole, or about six times as much as they gave
for them; and sometimes they get even more: the oysters which are thus
pickled have a very fine flavour. The following is another way of
preserving oysters: they are taken out of the shells, fried with
butter, put into a glass or earthen vessel with the melted butter over
them, so that they are quite covered with it, and no air can get to
them. Oysters prepared in this manner have likewise an agreeable taste,
and are exported to the West Indies and other parts.

Oysters are here reckoned very wholesome, some people assured us, that
they had not felt the least inconvenience, after eating a considerable
quantity of them. It is likewise a common rule here that oysters are
best in those months which have an r in their name, such as September,
October, &c; but that they are not so good in other months; however
there are poor people, who live all the year long upon nothing but
oysters with bread.

The sea near New York, affords annually the greatest quantity of
oysters. They are found chiefly in a muddy ground, where they lie in
the slime, and are not so frequent in a sandy bottom: a rockey and a
stony bottom is seldom found here. The oyster shells are gathered in
great heaps, and burnt into a lime, which by some people is made use of
in building houses, but is not reckoned so good as that made of
limestone. On our journey to New York, we saw high heaps of oyster
shells near the farm-houses, upon the sea shore; and about New York, we
observed the people had carried them upon the fields which were sown
with wheat. However they were entire, and not crushed.

The Indians who inhabited the coast before the arrival of the
Europeans, have made oysters and other shell fish their chief food; and
at present whenever they come to a salt water where oysters are to be
got, they are very active in catching them, and sell them in great
quantities to other Indians who live higher up the country: for this
reason you see immense numbers of oyster and muscle shells piled up
near such places, where you are certain that the Indians formerly built
their huts. This circumstance ought to make us cautious in maintaining,
that in all places on the sea shore, or higher up in the country, where
such heaps of shells are to be met with, the latter have lain there
ever since the time that those places were overflowed by the sea.

Lobsters are likewise plentyfully caught hereabouts, pickled much in
the same way as oysters, and sent to several places. I was told of a
very remarkable circumstance about these lobsters, and I have
afterwards frequently heard it mentioned. The coast of New York had
already European inhabitants for a considerable time, yet no lobsters
were to be met with on that coast; and though the people fished ever so
often, they could never find any signs of lobsters being in this part
of the sea: they were therefore continually brought in great wellboats
from New England, where they are plentiful; but it happened that one of
these wellboats broke in pieces near Hellgate, about ten English miles
from New York, and all the lobsters in it got off. Since that time they
have so multiplied in this part of the sea, that they are now caught in
the greatest abundance.

November the 1st. A kind of cold fever, which the English in this
country call Fever and Ague, is very common in several parts of the
English colonies. There are however other parts, where the people have
never felt it. I will in the sequel describe the symptoms of this
disease at large. Several of the most considerable inhabitants of this
town, assured me that this disease was not near so common in New York,
as it is in Pensylvania, where ten were seized by it, to one in the
former province; therefore they were of opinion, that this disease was
occasioned by the vapours arising from stagnant fresh water, from
marshes, and from rivers; for which reason those provinces situated on
the sea shore, could not be so much affected by it. However the
carelesness with which people eat quantities of melons, watermelons,
peaches, and other juicy fruit in summer, was reckoned to contribute
much towards the progress of this fever; and repeated examples
confirmed the truth of this opinion. The jesuit’s bark was reckoned a
good remedy against it. It has however often been found to have
operated contrary to expectation, though I am ignorant whether it was
adulterated, or whether some mistake had been committed in the manner
of taking it. Mr. Davis van Horne, a merchant, told me that he cured
himself and several other people of this fever, by the leaves of the
common Garden Sage, or Salvia officinalis of Linnæus. The leaves are
crushed or pounded in a mortar, and the juice is pressed out of them;
this is continued till they get a spoonful of the liquid, which is
mixed with lemon juice. This draught is taken about the time that the
cold fit comes on; and after taking it three or four times, the fever
does not come again.

The bark of the white oak was reckoned the best remedy which had as yet
been found against the dysentery. It is reduced to a powder, and then
taken: some people assured me that in cases where nothing would help,
this remedy had given a certain and speedy relief. The people in this
place likewise make use of this bark (as is usually done in the English
colonies) to dye wool a brown colour, which looks like that of bohea
tea, and does not fade by being exposed to the sun. Among the numerous
shells which are found on the sea shore, there are some which by the
English here are called Clams, and which bear some resemblance to the
human ear. They have a considerable thickness, and are chiefly white,
excepting the pointed end, which both without and within has a blue
colour, between purple and violet. They are met with in vast numbers on
the sea shore of New York, Long Island, and other places. The shells
contain a large animal, which is eaten both by the Indians and
Europeans settled here.

A considerable commerce is carried on in this article, with such
Indians as live further up the country. When these people inhabited the
coast, they were able to catch their own clams, which at that time made
a great part of their food; but at present this is the business of the
Dutch and English, who live in Long Island and other maritime
provinces. As soon as the shells are caught, the fish is taken out of
them, drawn upon a wire, and hung up in the open air, in order to dry
by the heat of the sun. When this is done, the fish is put into proper
vessels, and carried to Albany upon the river Hudson; there the Indians
buy them, and reckon them one of their best dishes. Besides the
Europeans, many of the native Indians come annually down to the sea
shore, in order to catch clams, proceeding with them afterwards in the
manner I have just described.

The shells of these clams are used by the Indians as money, and make
what they call their wampum; they likewise serve their women for an
ornament, when they intend to appear in full dress. These wampums are
properly made of the purple parts of the shells, which the Indians
value more than the white parts. A traveller, who goes to trade with
the Indians, and is well stocked with them, may become a considerable
gainer; but if he take gold coin, or bullion, he will undoubtedly be a
loser; for the Indians who live farther up the country, put little or
no value upon these metals which we reckon so precious, as I have
frequently observed in the course of my travels. The Indians formerly
made their own wampums, though not without a deal of trouble: but at
present the Europeans employ themselves that way; especially the
inhabitants of Albany, who get a considerable profit by it. In the
sequel I intend to relate the manner of making the wampum.

November the 2d. Besides the different sects of christians, there are
many Jews settled in New York, who possess great privileges. They have
a synagogue and houses, and great country seats of their own property,
and are allowed to keep shops in town. They have likewise several
ships, which they freight and send out with their own goods. In fine
they enjoy all the privileges common to the other inhabitants of this
town and province.

During my residence at New York, this time and in the two next years, I
was frequently in company with Jews. I was informed among other things,
that these people never boiled any meat for themselves on saturday, but
that they always did it the day before; and that in winter they kept a
fire during the whole saturday. They commonly eat no pork; yet I have
been told by several men of credit, that many of them (especially among
the young Jews) when travelling, did not not make the least difficulty
about eating this, or any other meat that was put before them; even
though they were in company with christians. I was in their synagogue
last evening for the first time, and this day at noon I visited it
again, and each time I was put into a particular seat which was set
apart for strangers or christians. A young Rabbi read the divine
service, which was partly in Hebrew, and partly in the Rabinical
dialect. Both men and women were dressed entirely in the English
fashion; the former had all of them their hats on, and did not once
take them off during service. The galleries, I observed, were
appropriated to the ladies, while the men sat below. During prayers the
men spread a white cloth over their heads; which perhaps is to
represent sack cloth. But I observed that the wealthier sort of people
had a much richer cloth than the poorer ones. Many of the men had
Hebrew books, in which they sang and read alternately. The Rabbi stood
in the middle of the synagogue, and read with his face turned towards
the east; he spoke however so fast, as to make it almost impossible for
any one to understand what he said. [40]

New York, the capital of a province of the same name is situated under
forty deg. and forty min. north lat. and forty seven deg. and four min.
of western long. from London; and is about ninety seven English miles
distant from Philadelphia. The situation of it is extremely
advantageous for trade: for the town stands upon a point which is
formed by two bays; into one of which the river Hudson discharges
itself, not far from the town; New York is therefore on three sides
surrounded with water; the ground it is built on, is level in some
parts, and hilly in others: the place is generally reckoned very
wholesome.

The town was first founded by the Dutch: this, it is said, was done in
the year 1623, when they were yet masters of the country: they called
it New Amsterdam, and the country itself New Holland. The English,
towards the end of the year 1664, taking possession of it under the
conduct of Des Cartes, and keeping it by the virtue of the next treaty
of peace, gave the name of New York to both the town, and the province
belonging to it: in size it comes nearest to Boston and Philadelphia.
But with regard to its fine buildings, its opulence, and extensive
commerce, it disputes the preference with them: at present it is about
half as big again as Gothenburgh in Sweden.

The streets do not run so straight as those of Philadelphia, and have
sometimes considerable bendings: however they are very spacious and
well built, and most of them are paved, except in high places, where it
has been found useless. In the chief streets there are trees planted,
which in summer give them a fine appearance, and during the excessive
heat at that time, afford a cooling shade: I found it extremely
pleasant to walk in the town, for it seemed quite like a garden: the
trees which are planted for this purpose are chiefly of two kinds. The
Water beech, or Linnæus’s Platanus occidentalis, are the most numerous,
and give an agreeable shade in summer, by their great and numerous
leaves. The Locust tree, or Linnæus’s Robinia Pseud-Acacia is likewise
frequent: its fine leaves, and the odoriferous scent which exhales from
its flowers, make it very proper for being planted in the streets near
the houses, and in gardens. There are likewise lime trees and elms, in
these walks, but they are not by far so frequent as the others: one
seldom met with trees of the same sort next to each other, they being
in general planted alternately.

Besides numbers of birds of all kinds which make these trees their
abode, there are likewise a kind of frogs which frequent them in great
numbers in summer, they are Dr. Linnæus’s Rana arborea, and especially
the American variety of this animal. They are very clamorous in the
evening and in the nights (especially when the days had been hot, and a
rain was expected) and in a manner drown the singing of the birds. They
frequently make such a noise, that it is difficult for a person to make
himself heard.

Most of the houses are built of bricks; and are generally strong and
neat, and several stories high. Some had, according to old
architecture, turned the gable-end towards the streets; but the new
houses were altered in this respect. Many of the houses had a balcony
on the roof, on which the people used to sit in the evenings in the
summer season; and from thence they had a pleasant view of a great part
of the town, and likewise of part of the adjacent water and of the
opposite shore. The roofs are commonly covered with tiles or shingles:
the latter of which are made of the white firtree, or Pinus Strobus
(Linn. sp. plant. page 1419.) which grows higher up in the country. The
inhabitants are of opinion that a roof made of these shingles is as
durable as one made in Pensylvania of the White Cedar, or Cupressus
thyoides (Linn. spec. plant, page 1422.) The walls were whitewashed
within, and I did not any where see hangings, with which the people in
this country seem in general to be but little acquainted. The walls
were quite covered with all sorts of drawings and pictures in small
frames. On each side of the chimnies they had usually a sort of alcove;
and the wall under the windows was wainscoted, and had benches placed
near it. The alcoves, and all the wood work were painted with a bluish
grey colour.

There are several churches in the town, which deserve some attention.
1. The English Church, built in the year 1695, at the west end of town,
consisting of stone, and has a steeple with a bell. 2. The new Dutch
Church, which is likewise built of stone, is pretty large and is
provided with a steeple, it also has a clock, which is the only one in
the town. This church stands almost due from north to south. No
particular point of the compass has here been in general attended to in
erecting sacred buildings. Some churches, stand as is usual from east
to west, others from south to north, and others in different positions.
In this Dutch church, there is neither altar, vestry, choir, sconces,
nor paintings. Some trees are planted round it, which make it look as
if it was built in a wood. 3. The old Dutch church, which is also built
of stone. It is not so large as the new one. It was painted in the
inside, though without any images, and adorned with a small organ, of
which governor Burnet made them a present. The men for the most part
sit in the gallery, and the women below. 4. The Presbyterian Church,
which is pretty large, and was built but lately. It is of stone, and
has a steeple and a bell in it. 5. The German Lutheran Church. 6. The
German Reformed Church. 7. The French Church, for protestant refugees.
8. The Quaker’s Meeting house. 9. To these may be added the Jewish
Synagogue, which I mentioned before.

Towards the sea, on the extremity of the promontory is a pretty good
fortress, called Fort George, which entirely commands the port, and can
defend the town, at least from a sudden attack on the sea side. Besides
that, it is likewise secured on the north or towards the shore, by a
pallisade, which however (as for a considerable time the people have
had nothing to fear from an enemy) is in many places in a very bad
state of defence.

There is no good water to be met with in the town itself, but at a
little distance there is a large spring of good water, which the
inhabitants take for their tea, and for the uses of the kitchen. Those
however, who are less delicate in this point, make use of the water
from the wells in town, though it be very bad. This want of good water
lies heavy upon the horses of the strangers that come to this place;
for they do not like to drink the water from the wells in the town.

The port is a good one: ships of the greatest burthen can lie in it,
quite close up to the bridge: but its water is very salt, as the sea
continually comes in upon it; and therefore is never frozen, except in
extraordinary cold weather. This is of great advantage to the city and
its commerce; for many ships either come in or go out of the port at
any time of the year; unless the winds be contrary; a convenience,
which as I have before observed, is wanting at Philadelphia. It is
secured from all violent hurricanes from the south-east by Long Island
which is situated just before the town: therefore only the storms from
the south-west are dangerous to the ships which ride at anchor here,
because the port is open only on that side. The entrance however has
its faults: one of them is, that no men of war can pass through it; for
though the water is pretty deep, yet it is not sufficiently so for
great ships. Sometimes even merchant ships of a large size have by the
rolling of the waves and by sinking down between them, slightly touched
the bottom, though without any bad consequences. Besides this, the
canal is narrow; and for this reason many ships have been lost here,
because they may be easily cast upon a sand, if the ship is not well
piloted. Some old people, who had constantly been upon this canal,
assured me, that it was neither deeper, nor shallower at present, than
in their youth.

The common difference between high and low water at New York, amounts
to about six feet, English measure. But at a certain time in every
month, when the tide flows more than commonly, the difference in the
height of the water is seven feet.

New York probably carries on a more extensive commerce, than any town
in the English North American provinces; at least it may be said to
equal them: Boston and Philadelphia however come very near up to it.
The trade of New York extends to many places, and it is said they send
more ships from thence to London, than they do from Philadelphia. They
export to that capital all the various sorts of skins which they buy of
the Indians, sugar, logwood, and other dying woods, rum, mahogany, and
many other goods which are the produce of the West Indies; together
with all the specie which they get in the course of trade. Every year
they build several ships here, which are sent to London, and there
sold; and of late years they have shipped a quantity of iron to
England. In return for these, they import from London stuffs and every
other article of English growth or manufacture, together with all sorts
of foreign goods. England, and especially London, profits immensely by
its trade with the American colonies; for not only New York, but
likewise all the other English towns on the continent, import so many
articles from England, that all their specie, together with the goods
which they get in other countries, must altogether go to Old England,
in order to pay the amount, to which they are however insufficient.
From hence it appears how much a well regulated colony contributes to
the increase and welfare of its mother country.

New York sends many ships to the West Indies, with flour, corn,
biscuit, timber, tuns, boards, flesh, fish, butter, and other
provisions; together with some of the few fruits that grow here. Many
ships go to Boston in New England, with corn and flour, and take in
exchange, flesh, butter, timber, different sorts of fish, and other
articles, which they carry further to the West Indies. They now and
then take rum from thence, which is distilled there in great
quantities, and sell it here with a considerable advantage. Sometimes
they send yachts with goods from New York to Philadelphia, and at other
times yachts are sent from Philadelphia to New York; which is only
done, as appears from the gazettes, because certain articles are
cheaper at one place than at the other. They send ships to Ireland
every year, laden with all kinds of West India goods; but especially
with linseed, which is reaped in this province. I have been assured,
that in some years no less than ten ships have been sent to Ireland,
laden with nothing but linseed; because it is said the flax in Ireland
does not afford good seed. But probably the true reason is this: the
people of Ireland, in order to have the better flax, make use of the
plant before the seed is ripe, and therefore are obliged to send for
foreign seed; and hence it becomes one of the chief articles in trade.

At this time a bushel of linseed is sold for eight shillings of New
York currency, or exactly a piece of eight.

The goods which are shipped to the West Indies, are sometimes paid for
with ready money, and sometimes with West India goods, which are either
first brought to New York, or immediately sent to England or Holland.
If a ship does not chuse to take in West India goods in its return to
New York, or if no body will freight it, it often goes to Newcastle in
England to take in coals for ballast, which when brought home sell for
a pretty good price. In many parts of the town coals are made use of,
both for kitchen fires, and in rooms, because they are reckoned cheaper
than wood, which at present costs thirty Shillings of New York currency
per fathom; of which measure I have before made mention. New York has
likewise some intercourse with South Carolina; to which it sends corn,
flour, sugar, rum, and other goods, and takes rice in return, which is
almost the only commodity exported from South Carolina.

The goods with which the province of New York trades are not very
numerous. They chiefly export the skins of animals, which are bought of
the Indians about Oswego; great quantities of boards, coming for the
most part from Albany; timber and ready made lumber, from that part of
the country which lies about the river Hudson; and lastly wheat, flour,
barley, oats and other kinds of corn, which are brought from New Jersey
and the cultivated parts of this province. I have seen yachts from New
Brunswick, laden with wheat which lay loose on board, and with flour
packed up into tuns; and also with great quantities of linseed. New
York likewise exports some flesh and other provisions out of its own
province, but they are very few; nor is the quantity of pease which the
people about Albany bring much greater. Iron however may be had more
plentifully, as it is found in several parts of this province, and is
of a considerable goodness; but all the other products of this country
are of little account.

Most of the wine, which is drank here and in the other colonies is
brought from the Isle of Madeira and is very strong and fiery.

No manufactures of note have as yet been established here; at present
they get all manufactured goods, such as woollen and linen cloth, &c.
from England, and especially from London.

The river Hudson is very convenient for the commerce of this city; as
it is navigable for near a hundred and fifty English miles up the
country, and falls into the bay not far from the town, on its western
side. During eight months of the year this river is full of yachts, and
other greater and lesser vessels, either going to New York or returning
from thence, laden either with inland or foreign goods.

I cannot make a just estimate of the ships that annually come to this
town or sail from it. But I have found by the Pensylvania gazettes that
from the first of December in 1729, to the fifth of December in the
next year, 211 ships entered the port of New York, and 222 cleared it;
and since that time there has been a great increase of trade here.

The country people come to market in New York, twice a week much in the
same manner, as they do at Philadelphia; with this difference, that the
markets are here kept in several places.

The governor of the province of New York, resides here, and has a
palace in the fort. Among those who have been entrusted with this post,
William Burnet deserves to be had in perpetual remembrance. He was one
of the sons of Dr. Thomas Burnet (so celebrated on account of his
learning) and seemed to have inherited the knowledge of his father. But
his great assiduity in promoting the welfare of this province, is what
makes the principal merit of his character. The people of New York
therefore still reckon him the best governor they ever had, and think
that they cannot praise his services too much. The many astronomical
observations which he made in these parts, are inserted in several
English works. In the year 1727, at the accession of king George the
II. to the throne of Great Britain, he was appointed governor of New
England. In consequence of this he left New York, and went to Boston,
where he died universally lamented, on the 7th. of September 1729.

An assembly of deputies from all the particular districts of the
province of New York, is held at New York once or twice every year. It
may be looked upon as a parliament or dyet in miniature. Every thing
relating to the good of the province is here debated. The governor
calls the assembly, and dissolves it at pleasure: this is a power which
he ought only to make use of, either when no farther debates are
necessary, or when the members are not so unanimous in the service of
their king and country as is their duty: it frequently however happens,
that, led aside by caprice or by interested views, he exerts it to the
prejudice of the province. The colony has sometimes had a governor,
whose quarrels with the inhabitants, have induced their
representatives, or the members of the assembly, through a spirit of
revenge, to oppose indifferently every thing he proposed, whether it
was beneficial to the country or not. In such cases the governor has
made use of his power; dissolving the assembly, and calling another
soon after, which however he again dissolved upon the least mark of
their ill humour. By this means he so much tired them, by the many
expences which they were forced to bear in so short a time, that they
were at last glad to unite with him, in his endeavours for the good of
the province. But there have likewise been governors who have called
assemblies and dissolved them soon after, merely because the
representatives did not act according to their whims, or would not give
their assent to proposals which were perhaps dangerous or hurtful to
the common welfare.

The king appoints the governor according to his royal pleasure; but the
inhabitants of the province make up his excellency’s salary. Therefore
a man entrusted with this place has greater or lesser revenues,
according as he knows how to gain the confidence of the inhabitants.
There are examples of governors in this, and other provinces of North
America, who by their dissensions with the inhabitants of their
respective governments, have lost their whole salary, his Majesty
having no power to make them pay it. If a governor had no other
resource in these circumstances, he would be obliged either to resign
his office, or to be content with an income too small for his dignity;
or else to conform himself in every thing to the inclinations of the
inhabitants: but there are several stated profits, which in some
measure make up for this. 1. No one is allowed to keep a public house
without the governor’s leave; which is only to be obtained by the
payment of a certain fee, according to the circumstances of the person.
Some governors therefore, when the inhabitants refused to pay them a
salary, have hit upon the expedient of doubling the number of inns in
their province. 2. Few people who intend to be married, unless they be
very poor, will have their banns published from the pulpit; but instead
of this they get licences from the governor, which impower any minister
to marry them. Now for such a licence the governor receives about half
a guinea, and this collected throughout the whole province, amounts to
a considerable sum. 3. The governor signs all passports, and especially
of such as go to sea; and this gives him another means of supplying his
expences. There are several other advantages allowed to him, but as
they are very trifling, I shall omit them.

At the above assembly the old laws are reviewed and amended, and new
ones are made: and the regulation and circulation of coin, together
with all other affairs of that kind are there determined. For it is to
be observed that each English colony in North America is independent of
the other, and that each has its proper laws and coin, and may be
looked upon in several lights, as a state by itself. From hence it
happens, that in time of war, things go on very slowly and irregularly
here: for not only the sense of one province is sometimes directly
opposite to that of another; but frequently the views of the governor,
and those of the assembly of the same province, are quite different: so
that it is easy to see, that, while the people are quarrelling about
the best and cheapest manner of carrying on the war, an enemy has it in
his power to take one place after another. It has commonly happened
that whilst some provinces have been suffering from their enemies, the
neighbouring ones were quiet and inactive, and as if it did not in the
least concern them. They have frequently taken up two or three years in
considering whether they should give assistance to an oppressed sister
colony, and sometimes they have expresly declared themselves against
it. There are instances of provinces who were not only neuter in these
circumstances, but who even carried on a great trade with the power
which at that very time was attacking and laying waste some other
provinces.

The French in Canada, who are but an inconsiderable body, in comparison
with the English in America, have by this position of affairs been able
to obtain great Advantages in times of war; for if we judge from the
number and power of the English, it would seem very easy for them to
get the better of the French in America. [41]

It is however of great advantage to the crown of England, that the
North American colonies are near a country, under the government of the
French, like Canada. There is reason to believe that the king never was
earnest in his attempts to expel the French from their possessions
there; though it might have been done with little difficulty. For the
English colonies in this part of the world have encreased so much in
their number of inhabitants, and in their riches, that they almost vie
with Old England. Now in order to keep up the authority and trade of
their mother country, and to answer several other puposes, they are
forbid to establish new manufactures, which would turn to the
disadvantage of the British commerce: they are not allowed to dig for
any gold or silver, unless they send them to England immediately: they
have not the liberty of trading to any parts that do not belong to the
British dominions, excepting some settled places, and foreign traders
are not allowed to send their ships to them. These and some other
restrictions, occasion the inhabitants of the English colonies to grow
less tender for their mother country. This coldness is kept up by the
many foreigners such as Germans, Dutch and French settled here, and
living among the English, who commonly have no particular attachment to
Old England; add to this likewise that many people can never be
contented with their possessions, though they be ever so great, and
will always be desirous of getting more, and of enjoying the pleasure
which arises from changing; and their over great liberty, and their
luxury often lead them to licentiousness.

I have been told by Englishmen, and not only by such as were born in
America, but even by such as came from Europe, that the English
colonies in North-America, in the space of thirty or fifty years, would
be able to form a state by themselves, entirely independent on Old
England. But as the whole country which lies along the sea shore, is
unguarded, and on the land side is harrassed by the French, in times of
war these dangerous neighbours are sufficient to prevent the connection
of the colonies with their mother country from being quite broken off.
The English government has therefore sufficient reason to consider the
French in North-America, as the best means of keeping the colonies in
their due submission. But, I am almost gone too far from my purpose; I
will therefore finish my observations on New York.

The declination of the magnetic needle, in this town was observed by
Philip Wells, the chief engineer of the province of New York, in the
year 1686, to be eight deg. and forty-five min. to the westward. But in
1723, it was only seven deg. and twenty min. according to the
observations of governor Burnet.

From hence we may conclude that in thirty-eight years the magnet
approaches about one deg. and twenty five min. nearer to the true
north; or, which is the same thing, about two min. annually. Mr.
Alexander, a man of great knowledge in astronomy and in mathematics,
assured me from several observations, that in the year 1750, on the
eighteenth of September the deviation was to be reckoned six deg. and
twenty two min.

There are two printers in the town, and every week some English
gazettes are published, which contain news from all parts of the world.

The winter is much more severe here, than in Pensylvania; it being
nearly as cold as in some of the provinces of Sweden: its continuance
however is much shorter than with us: their spring is very early and
their autumn very late, and the heat in summer is excessive. For this
reason, the melons sown in the fields are ripe at the beginning of
August; whereas we can hardly bring them so soon to maturity under
glasses and on hot beds. The cold of the winter, I cannot justly
determine, as the meteorological observations which were communicated
to me, were all calculated after thermometers, which were so placed in
the houses, that the air could not freely come at them. The snow lies
for some months together upon the ground; and sledges are made use of
here as in Sweden, but they are rather too bulky. The river Hudson is
about an English mile and a half broad at its mouth: the difference
between the highest flood and the lowest ebb is between six and seven
feet, and the water is very brackish: yet the ice stands in it not only
one but even several months: it has sometimes a thickness of more than
two feet.

The inhabitants are sometimes greatly troubled with Musquitoes. They
either follow the hay which is made near the town, in the low meadows
which are quite penetrated with salt water; or they accompany the
cattle at night when it is brought home. I have myself experienced, and
have observed in others, how much these little animalcules can
disfigure a person’s face during a single night; for the skin is
sometimes so covered over with little blisters from their stings, that
people are ashamed to appear in public. The water melons which are
cultivated near the town grow very large: they are extremely delicious,
and are better than in other parts of North America; though they are
planted in the open fields and never in a hot-bed. I saw a water melon
at Governor Clinton’s in September 1750, which weighed forty seven
English pounds, and at a merchant’s in town another of forty two pounds
weight: however they were reckoned the biggest ever seen in this
country.

In the year 1710, five kings, or Sachems of the Iroquois went from
hence to England, in order to engage Queen Anne to make an alliance
with them against the French. Their names, dress, reception at court,
speeches to the Queen, opinion of England and of the European manners,
and several other particulars about them are sufficiently known from
other writings; it would therefore be here unnecessary to enlarge about
them. The kings or Sachems of the Indians, have commonly no greater
authority over their subjects than constables in a meeting of the
inhabitants of a parish, and hardly so much. On my travels through the
country of these Indians, I had never any occasion to go and wait upon
the Sachems; for they always came into my habitation without being
asked: these visits they commonly paid in order to get a glass or two
of brandy, which they value above any thing they know. One of the five
Sachems mentioned above, died in England; the others returned safe.

The first colonists in New York were Dutchmen: when the town and its
territories were taken by the English, and left them by the next peace
in exchange for Surinam, the old inhabitants were allowed either to
remain at New York, and to enjoy all the privileges and immunities
which they were possessed of before, or to leave the place with all
their goods: most of them chose the former; and therefore the
inhabitants both of the town and of the province belonging to it, are
yet for the greatest part Dutchmen; who still, especially the old
people, speak their mother tongue.

They begin however by degrees to change their manners and opinions;
chiefly indeed in the town and in its neighbourhood: for most of the
young people now speak principally English, and go only to the English
church; and would even take it amiss, if they were called Dutchmen and
not Englishmen.

Though the province of New York has been inhabited by Europeans, much
longer than Pensylvania, yet it is not by far so populous as that
colony. This cannot be ascribed to any particular discouragement
arising from the nature of the soil; for that is pretty good: but I was
told of a very different reason, which I will mention here. In the
reign of Queen Anne about the year 1709, many Germans came hither, who
got a tract of land from the government on which they might settle.
After they had lived there for some time, and had built houses and
churches, and made corn-fields and meadows, their liberties and
privileges were infringed, and under several pretences they were
repeatedly deprived of parts of their land. This at last rouzed the
Germans; they returned violence for violence, and beat those who thus
robbed them of their possessions. But these proceedings were looked
upon in a very bad light by the government: the most active people
among the Germans being taken up, they were very roughly treated, and
punished with the utmost rigour of the law. This however so far
exasperated the rest, that the greater part of them left their houses
and fields, and went to settle in Pensylvania: there they were
exceedingly well received, got a considerable tract of land, and were
indulged in great privileges which were given them forever. The Germans
not satisfied with being themselves removed from New York, wrote to
their relations and friends and advised them, if ever they intended to
come to America, not to go to New York, where the government had shewn
itself so unequitable. This advice had such influence, that the
Germans, who afterwards went in great numbers to North America,
constantly avoided New York and always went to Pensylvania. It
sometimes happened that they were forced to go on board such ships as
were bound to New York; but they were scarce got on shore, when they
hastened on to Pensylvania in sight of all the inhabitants of New York.

But the want of people in this province may likewise be accounted for
in a different manner. As the Dutch, who first cultivated this country,
obtained the liberty of staying here by the treaty with England, and of
enjoying all their privileges and advantages without the least
limitation, each of them took a very large piece of ground for himself,
and many of the more powerful heads of families made themselves the
possessors and masters of a country of as great an extent as would be
sufficient to form a middling and even a great parish. Most of them
being very rich, their envy of the English led them not to sell them
any land, but at an excessive rate; a practice which is still
punctually observed among their descendants. The English therefore as
well as people of different nations, have little encouragement to
settle here. On the other hand they have sufficient opportunity in the
other provinces, to purchase land at a more moderate price, and with
more security to themselves. It is not then to be wondered, that so
many parts of New York are still uncultivated, and have entirely the
appearance of desarts. This instance may teach us how much a small
mistake in a government will injure population.

November the 3d. About noon we set out from New York on our return, and
continuing our journey, we arrived at Philadelphia on the fifth of
November.

In the neighbourhood of this capital (of Pensylvania) the people had a
month ago made their cyder, which they were obliged to do, because
their apples were so ripe as to drop from the trees. But on our journey
through New York we observed the people still employed in pressing out
the cyder. This is a plain proof that in Pensylvania the apples are
sooner ripe than in New York; but whether this be owing to the nature
of the soil, or a greater heat of the summer in Philadelphia, or to
some other cause I know not. However there is not the least advantage
in making cyder so early: for long experience had taught the husbandmen
that it is worse for being made early in the year; the great heat in
the beginning of autumn being said to hinder the fermentation of the
juice.

There is a certain quadruped which is pretty common not only in
Pensylvania, but likewise in other provinces both of South and North
America, and goes by the name of Polecat among the English. In New York
they generally call it Skunk. The Swedes here by way of nickname called
it Fiskatta, on account of the horrid stench it sometimes causes as I
shall presently show. The French in Canada, for the same reason call it
Bête puante or stinking animal, and Enfant du diable or child of the
devil. Some of them likewise call it Pekan: Catesby in his Natural
History of Carolina, has described it in Vol. 2. p. 62. by the name of
Putorius Americanus striatus and drawn it plate 62. Dr. Linnæus calls
it Viverra Putorius. [42] This animal, which is very similar to the
Marten, is of about the same size and commonly black: on the back it
has a longitudinal white stripe and two others on each side, parallel
to the former. Sometimes but very seldom, some are seen which are quite
white. On our return to Philadelphia we saw one of these animals not
far from town near a farmer’s house, killed by dogs. And afterwards I
had during my stay in these parts several opportunities of seeing it
and of hearing its qualities. It keeps its young ones in holes in the
ground and in hollow trees; for it does not confine itself to the
ground, but climbs up trees with the greatest agility: it is a great
enemy to birds; for it breaks their eggs and devours their young ones;
and if it can get into a hen roost it soon destroys all its
inhabitants.

This animal has a particular quality by which it is principally known;
when it is pursued by men or dogs it runs at first as fast as it can,
or climbs upon a tree; but if it is so beset by its pursuers, as to
have no other way of making its escape, it squirts its urine upon them.
This according to some it does by wetting its tail with the urine
whence by a sudden motion it scatters it abroad; but others believe,
that it could send its urine equally far without the help of its tail;
I find the former of these accounts to be the most likely. For, some
credible people assured me, that they have had their faces wetted with
it all over; though they stood above eighteen feet off from the animal.
The urine has so horrid a stench that nothing can equal it: it is
something like that of the Cranesbill or Linnæus’s Geranium
robertianum, but infinitely stronger. If you come near a polecat when
it spreads its stench, you cannot breathe for a while, and it seems as
if you were stifled; and in case the urine comes into the eyes, a
person is likely to be blinded. Many dogs that in a chace pursue the
polecat very eagerly, run away as fast as they can when they are
wetted: however, if they be of the true breed, they will not give over
the pursuit till they have caught and killed the polecat; but they are
obliged now and then to rub their noses in the ground in order to
relieve themselves.

Clothes which have been wetted by this animal retain the smell for more
than a month; unless they be covered with fresh soil, and suffered to
remain under it for twenty four hours together; when it will in a great
measure be removed. Those likewise who have got any of this urine upon
their face and hands, rub them with loose earth; and some even hold
their hands in the ground for an hour; as washing will not help them so
soon. A certain man of rank who had by accident been wetted by the
polecat, stunk so ill, that on going into a house, the people either
ran away, or on his opening the door, rudely denied him entrance. Dogs
that have hunted a polecat are so offensive for some days afterwards,
that they cannot be borne in the house. At Philadelphia I once saw a
great number of people on a market day throwing at a dog that was so
unfortunate as to have been engaged with a polecat just before, and to
carry about him the tokens of its displeasure. Persons when travelling
through a forest are often troubled with the stink which this creature
makes; and sometimes the air is so much infected that it is necessary
to hold ones nose. If the wind blows from the place where the polecat
has been, or if it be quite calm, as at night, the smell is more strong
and disagreeable.

In the winter of 1749, a polecat tempted by a dead lamb, came one night
near the farm house where I then slept. Being immediately pursued by
some dogs, it had recourse to its usual expedient in order to get rid
of them. The attempt succeeded, the dogs not choosing to continue the
pursuit: the stink was so extremely great that, though I was at some
distance it affected me in the same manner as if I had been stifled;
and it was so disagreeable to the cattle that it made them roar very
loudly: however, by degrees it vanished. Towards the end of the same
year one of these animals got into our cellar, but no stench was
observed, for it only vents that when it is pursued. The cook however
found for several days together that some of the meat which was kept
there was eaten; and suspecting that it was done by the cat she shut up
all avenues, in order to prevent their getting at it. But the next
night being awoke by a noise in the cellar, she went down, and though
it was quite dark, saw an animal with two shining eyes, which seemed to
be all on fire; she however resolutely killed it, but not before the
polecat had filled the cellar with a most dreadful stench. The maid was
sick of it for several days; and all the bread, flesh, and other
provisions kept in the cellar were so penetrated with it, that we could
not make the least use of them, and were forced to throw them all away.

From an accident that happened at New York to one of my acquaintances,
I conclude that the polecat either is not always very shy, or that it
sleeps very hard at night. This man coming home out of a wood in a
summer evening, thought that he saw a plant standing before him;
stooping to pluck it, he was to his cost convinced of his mistake, by
being all on a sudden covered with the urine of a polecat, whose tail
as it stood upright, the good man had taken for a plant: the creature
had taken its revenge so effectually that he was much at a loss how to
get rid of the stench.

However though these animals play such disagreeable tricks, yet the
English, the Swedes, the French, and the Indians in these parts tame
them. They follow their masters like domestic animals, and never make
use of their urine, except they be very much beaten or terrified. When
the Indians kill such a polecat, they always eat its flesh, but when
they pull off its skin, they take care to cut away the bladder, that
the flesh may not get a taste from it. I have spoken with both
Englishmen and Frenchmen, who assured me that they had eaten of it, and
found it very good meat, and not much unlike the flesh of a pig. The
skin which is pretty coarse, and has long hair, is not made use of by
the Europeans; but the Indians prepare it with the hair on, and make
tobacco pouches of it, which they carry before them.

November the 6th. In the evening I went out of town to Mr. Bartram, I
found a man with him, who lived in Carolina and I obtained several
particulars about that province from him; a few of which I will here
mention.

Tar, pitch and rice are the chief products of Carolina. The soil is
very sandy, and therefore many pines and firs grow in it, from which
they make tar: the firs which are taken for this purpose are commonly
such as are dried up of themselves; the people here in general not
knowing how to prepare the firs by taking the bark off on one, or on
several sides, as they do in Ostrobothnia. In some parts of Carolina
they likewise make use of the branches. The manner of burning or
boiling, as the man describes it to me, is entirely the same as in
Finland. The pitch is thus made: they dig a hole into the ground and
smear the inside well with clay, into which they pour the tar, and make
a fire round it, which is kept up till the tar has got the consistence
of pitch. They make two kinds of tar in the North American colonies:
one is the common tar, which I have above described, and which is made
of the stems, branches, and roots of such firs, as were already
considerably dried out before; which is the most common way in this
country. The other way in peeling the bark from the firs on one side,
and afterwards letting them stand another year; during which the resin
comes out between the cracks of the item. The tree is then felled and
burnt for tar; and the tar thus made is called green tar, not that
there is that difference of colour in it, for in this respect they are
both pretty much alike; but the latter is called so from being made of
green and fresh trees; whereas common tar is made of dead trees: the
burning is done in the same manner as in Finland. They use only black
firs; for the white firs will not serve this purpose, though they are
excellent for boards, masts, &c. green tar is dearer than common tar.
It is already a pretty general complaint that the fir woods are almost
wholly destroyed by this practice.

Rice is planted in great quantity in Carolina: it succeeds best in
marshy and swampy grounds, which may be laid under water, and likewise
ripens there the soonest. Where these cannot be had, they must choose a
dry soil; but the rice produced here will be much inferior to the
other: the land on which it is cultivated must never be manured. In
Carolina they sow it in the middle of April, and it is ripe in
September: it is planted in rows like pease, and commonly fifteen
inches space is left between the rows; as soon as the plants are come
up, the field is laid under water. This not only greatly forwards the
growth of the rice, but likewise kills all weeds, so as to render
weeding unnecessary. The straw of rice is said to be excellent food for
cattle, who eat it very greedily. Rice requires a hot climate, and
therefore it will not succeed well in Virginia, the summer there being
too short, and the winter too cold; and much less will it grow in
Pensylvania. They are as yet ignorant in Carolina of the art of making
arrack from rice: it is chiefly South Carolina that produces the
greatest quantity of rice; and on the other hand they make the most tar
in North Carolina.

November the 7th. The stranger from Carolina whom I have mentioned
before, had met with many oyster shells at the bottom of a well,
seventy English miles distant from the sea, and four from a river: they
lay in a depth of fourteen English feet from the surface of the earth:
the water in the well was brackish; but that in the river was fresh.
The same man, had at the building of a saw-mill, a mile and a half from
a river, found, first sand, and then clay filled with oyster shells.
Under these he found several bills of sea birds as he called them,
which were already quite petrified: they were probably Glossopetræ.

There are two species of foxes in the English colonies, the one grey,
and the other red: but in the sequel I shall shew that there are others
which sometimes appear in Canada. The grey foxes are here constantly,
and are very common in Pensylvania and in the southern provinces: in
the northern ones they are pretty scarce, and the French in Canada,
call them Virginian Foxes on that account: in size they do not quite
come up to our foxes. They do no harm to lambs; but they prey upon all
sorts of poultry, whenever they can come at them. They do not however
seem to be looked upon as animals that cause a great deal of damage;
for there is no reward given for killing them: their skin is greatly
sought for by hatters, who employ the hair in their work. People have
their clothes lined with it sometimes: the grease is used against all
sorts of rheumatic pains. These foxes are said to be less nimble than
the red ones: they are sometimes tamed; though they be not suffered to
run about but are tied up. Mr. Catesby has drawn and described this
sort of foxes in his Natural history of Carolina, by the name of the
grey American fox, vol. 2. p. 78. tab. 78. A skin of it was sold in
Philadelphia for two shillings and six-pence in Pensylvanian currency.

The red Foxes are very scarce here: they are entirely the same with the
European sort. Mr. Bartram, and several others assured me, that
according to the unanimous testimony of the Indians, this kind of foxes
never was in the country, before the Europeans settled in it. But of
the manner of their coming over I have two different accounts: Mr.
Bartram and several other people were told by the Indians, that these
foxes came into America soon after the arrival of the Europeans, after
an extraordinary cold winter, when all the sea to the northward was
frozen: from hence they would infer, that they could perhaps get over
to America upon the ice from Greenland or the northern parts of Europe
and Asia. But Mr. Evans, and some others assured me that the following
account was still known by the people. A gentleman of fortune in New
England, who had a great inclination for hunting, brought over a great
number of foxes from Europe, and let them loose in his territories,
that he might be able to indulge his passion for hunting. [43] This is
said to have happened almost at the very beginning of New England’s
being peopled with European inhabitants. These foxes were believed to
have so multiplied, that all the red foxes in the country were their
offspring. At present they are reckoned among the noxious creatures in
these parts; for they are not contented, as the grey foxes with killing
fowl; but they likewise devour the lambs. In Pensylvania therefore
there is a reward of two shillings for killing an old fox, and of one
shilling for killing a young one. And in all the other provinces there
are likewise rewards offer’d for killing them, Their skin is in great
request, and is sold as dear as that of the grey foxes, that is two
shillings and six-pence, in Pensylvanian currency.

They have two varieties of Wolves here, which however seem to be of the
same species. For some of them are yellowish, or almost pale grey, and
others are black or dark brown. All the old Swedes related, that during
their childhood, and still more at the arrival of their fathers, there
were excessive numbers of wolves in the country, and that their howling
and yelping might be heard all night. They likewise frequently tore in
pieces, sheep, hogs, and other young and small cattle. About that time
or soon after, when the Swedes and the English were quite settled here,
the Indians were attacked by the small pox: this disease they got from
the Europeans, for they knew nothing of it before: it killed many
hundreds of them, and most of the Indians of the country, then called
New Sweden died of it. The wolves then came, attracted by the stench of
so many corpses, in such great numbers that they devoured them all, and
even attacked the poor sick Indians in their huts, so that the few
healthy ones had enough to do, to drive them away. But since that time
they have disappeared, so that they are now seldom seen, and it is very
rarely that they commit any disorders. This is attributed to the
greater cultivation of the country, and to their being killed in great
numbers. But further up the country, where it is not yet so much
inhabited, they are still very abundant. On the coasts of Pensylvania
and New Jersey, the sheep stay all night in the fields, without the
people’s fearing the wolves: however to prevent their multiplying too
much, there is a reward of twenty shillings in Pensylvania and of
thirty in New Jersey, for delivering in a dead wolf, and the person
that brings it may keep the skin. But for a young wolf the reward is
only ten shillings of the Pensylvanian currency. There are examples of
these wolves being made as tame as dogs.

The wild Oxen have their abode principally in the woods of Carolina,
which are far up in the country. The inhabitants frequently hunt them,
and salt their flesh like common beef, which is eaten by servants and
the lower class of people. But the hide is of little use, having too
large pores to be made use of for shoes. However the poorer people in
Carolina, spread these hides on the ground instead of beds.

The Viscum filamentosum, or Fibrous misletoe, is found in abundance in
Carolina; the inhabitants make use of it as straw in their beds, and to
adorn their houses; the cattle are very fond of it: it is likewise
employed in packing goods.

The Spartium scoparium grew in Mr. Bartram’s garden from English seeds;
he said that he had several bushes of it, but that the frost in the
cold winters here had killed most of them: they however grow
spontaneously in Sweden.

Mr. Bartram had same Truffles, or Linnæus’s Lycoperdon Tuber, which he
had got out of a sandy soil in New Jersey, where they are abundant.
These he shewed to his friend from Carolina, and asked him whether they
were the Tuckahoo of the Indians. But the stranger denied it, and added
that though these truffles were likewise very common in Carolina, yet
he had never seen them used any other way but in milk, against the
dysentery; and he gave us the following description of the Tuckahoo. It
grows in several swamps and marches, and is commonly plentiful. The
hogs greedily dig up its roots with their noses in such places; and the
Indians in Carolina likewise gather them in their rambles in the woods,
dry them in the sun shine, grind them and bake bread of them. Whilst
the root is fresh it is harsh and acrid, but being dried it loses the
greatest part of its acrimony. To judge by these qualities the Tuckahoo
may very likely be the Arum Virginianum. Compare with this account,
what shall be related in the sequel of the Tahim and Tuckah.

After dinner I again returned to town.

November the 8th. Several English and Swedish oeconomists kept
bee-hives, which afforded their possessors profit: for bees succeed
very well here: the wax was for the most part sold to tradesmen: but
the honey they made use of in their own families, in different ways.
The people were unanimous, that the common bees were not in North
America before the arrival of the Europeans; but that they were first
brought over by the English who settled here. The Indians likewise
generally declare, that their fathers had never seen any bees either in
the woods or any where else, before the Europeans had been several
years settled here. This is further confirmed by the name which the
Indians give them: for having no particular name for them in their
language, they call them English flies, because the English first
brought them over: but at present they fly plentifully about the woods
of North America. However it has been observed that the bees always
when they swarm, spread to the southward, and never to the northward.
It seems as if they do not find the latter countries so good for their
constitution: therefore they cannot stay in Canada, and all that have
been carried over thither, died in winter. It seemed to me as if the
bees in America were somewhat smaller than ours in Sweden. They have
not yet been found in the woods on the other side of the Blue
Mountains, which confirms the opinion of their being brought to America
of late. A man told Mr. Bartram, that on his travels in the woods of
North America, he had found another sort of bees, which, instead of
separating their wax and honey, mixed it both together in a great bag.
But this account wants both clearing up and confirming.

November the 9th. All the old Swedes and Englishmen born in America
whom I ever questioned, asserted that there were not near so many birds
fit for eating at present, as there used to be when they were children,
and that their decrease was visible. They even said, that they had
heard their fathers complain of this, in whose childhood the bays,
rivers and brooks were quite covered with all sorts of water fowls such
as wild geese, ducks, and the like. But at present there is sometimes
not a single bird upon them; about sixty or seventy years ago, a single
person could kill eighty ducks in a morning; but at present you
frequently wait in vain for a single one. A Swede above ninety years
old, assured me that he had in his youth killed twenty-three ducks at a
shot. This good luck no body is likely to have at present, as you are
forced to ramble about for a whole day, without getting a sight of more
than three or four. Cranes [44] at that time came hither by hundreds in
the spring: at present there are but very few. The wild Turkeys, and
the birds which the Swedes in this country call Partridges and
Hazel-hens were in whole flocks in the woods. But at this time a person
is tired with walking before he can start a single bird.

The cause of this diminution is not difficult to find. Before the
arrival of the Europeans, the country was uncultivated, and full of
great forests. The few Indians that lived here seldom disturbed the
birds. They carried on no trade among themselves, iron and gun powder
were unknown to them. One hundredth part of the fowl which at that time
were so plentiful here, would have sufficed to feed the few
inhabitants; and considering that they cultivated their small maize
fields, caught fish, hunted stags, beavers, bears, wild cattle, and
other animals whose flesh was delicious to them, it will soon appear
how little they disturbed the birds. But since the arrival of great
crouds of Europeans, things are greatly changed; the country is well
peopled, and the woods are cut down: the people increasing in this
country, they have by hunting and shooting in part extirpated the
birds, in part scared them away: in spring the people still take both
eggs, mothers and young indifferently, because no regulations are made
to the contrary. And if any had been made, the spirit of freedom which
prevails in the country would not suffer them to be obeyed. But though
the eatable birds have been diminished greatly, yet there are others,
which have rather increased than decreased in number, since the arrival
of the Europeans: this can most properly be said of a species of daws
which the English call Blackbirds [45] and the Swedes Maize thieves,
Dr. Linnæus calls them Gracula Quiscula. And together with them, the
several sorts of Squirrels among the quadrupeds have spread: for these
and the former, live chiefly upon maize, or at least they are most
greedy of it. But as population increases, the cultivation of maize
increases, and of course the food of the above-mentioned animals is
more plentiful: to this it is to be added, that these latter are rarely
eaten, and therefore they are more at liberty to multiply their kind.
There are likewise other birds which are not eaten, of which at present
there are nearly as many as there were before the arrival of the
Europeans. On the other hand I heard great complaints of the great
decrease of eatable fowl, not only in this province, but in all the
parts of North America, where I have been.

Aged people had experienced that with the fish, which I have just
mentioned of the birds: in their youth, the bays, rivers, and brooks,
had such quantities of fish that at one draught in the morning, they
caught as many as a horse was able to carry home. But 